Related: Amero, cent, currency, Euro, GNUrho, money, terminal, shell

The $ is a common symbol for money, especially the US DOLLAR.

It may be viewed as a snake crucified on a vertical or double vertical cross.  Other variations in representation have the snake coiled horizontally over a TAU cross (T).

It is also reminding me of a fasces.

â˜¤ "'A caduceus (/kÉ™ËˆduËsiÉ™s/, -ÊƒÉ™s, -ËˆdjuË-; kerykeion in Greek; Unicode U+2624 (â˜¤) on the Miscellaneous Symbols table) is a winged staff with two snakes wrapped around it.  It was an ancient astrological symbol of commerce and is associated with the Greek god Hermes, the messenger for the gods, conductor of the dead and protector of merchants and thieves.  It was originally a herald's staff, sometimes with wings, with two white ribbons attached. The ribbons eventually evolved into snakes.

In some cases, depictions of the Greek kerykeion can be radically different from that of the traditional caduceus (as in the picture at right).  These representations will feature the two snakes atop the wand (rod), crossed to create a circle with the heads of the snakes resembling horns.  In this form, it looks remarkably similar to the symbol for the planet Mercury ô while Mercury the god is the Roman name for Hermes, who carries the kerykeion, or caduceus.  The basic power of the Caduceus is the primal power to heal or harm.

In the seventh century, the caduceus came to be associated with a precursor of medicine, based on the Hermetic astrological principles of using the planets and stars to heal the sick.  As a symbol for medicine, the caduceus is often used interchangeably with the Rod of Asclepius (single snake, no wings), although learned opinion prefers the Rod of Asclepius, reserving the caduceus for representing commerce.[1] Historically, the two astrological symbols had distinct meanings in alchemical and astrological principles.  Some medical organizations join the serpents of the caduceus with rungs to suggest a DNA double-helix.'" -- Wikipedia.org/wiki/Caduceus
Wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron%27s_rod


âš• "'The Rod of Asclepius is an ancient Greek symbol associated with astrology and healing the sick with medicine.  It consists of a serpent entwined around a staff.'" -- en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rod_of_Asclepius
DRBlayney.com/Asclepius.html


From the Holy Bible (Sun Book)
>Exodus 7:12 And they every one cast down their rods, and they were turned into serpents: but Aaron's rod devoured their rods.
>Numbers 21:9 And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.


The $ sometimes represents a computer terminal command prompt.  When written at the beginning of a line it usually indicates that the following text is a command that should be entered by typing at a shell.
