Related: Aten, Atom, Aton, Atum, GOD

Some say Moses was Amenhotep IV - the "maverick pharaoh" who changed his name to Akhenaten - which transliterates as "worship-sun".

Some adherents say 'Amen' at the end of a prayer.


"'Amen is one of the oldest gods of Egypt. The name means "to hide," or "to be hidden."  He has been described as "the being who is endowed with a soul," He represented the breath of life. He was the Soul-god of Creation, who, through the source of all life, was himself invisible. By the XXIIth dynasty (1000 BCE) his fame and power grew along with the victories of various kings. His priests called him "King of Gods," and suggested that he existed before Egypt came into being. They next added Ra to his name, and as Amen-Ra, pictures shown him wearing all the symbols of the power and sovereignty of the Sun-god.

Amen of Thebes reached the height of popularity under the New Kingdom (1400 BCE). This seven point description was deciphered from a papyrus. It's got the self-created god, monotheism, trinity and healing powers.

1.       Amen's origin: He was self-created and as he fashioned himself none know his forms. He became in primeval time, no other being existed, there was no god before him, there was no god with him to declare his form, all the gods came into being after him.

2.       The hiddenness of Amen:  His body is hidden in the Chiefs. He is hidden as Amen at the head of the gods. Amen is one; he hides himself from the gods and conceals himself from them.

3.       His Oneness. His Unity is absolute.

4.       He was a Trinity, i.e. he had three persons, or characters.

5.       His name: His name is more helpful to a man than hundreds of thousands of helpers. The gods cannot pray to him because his name is unknown to them. The man who utters the secret name of Amen falls down and dies a violent death [like the unmentionable name of Yahweh]. His name is Victory.

6.       Amen as lord of time: He makes the years, rules the months, ordains nights and days. The night is as the day to him. He is the One Watcher neither slumbers nor sleeps.

7.       The beneficence of Amen: He breaks evil spells, expels sicknesses from the bodies of men. He, the Physician, heals the Eye, he destroys the Evil Eye, he releases men from hell, he abrogates the Destinies (or Fates) of men at his good pleasure, he hears all petitions and is present immediately he is invoked, he prolongs or shortens the lives of men at will, to the man he loves he adds to what Fate has decreed to him, and to the man who sets him in his heart he is more than millions.
'" -- USBible.com/Astrology/sun_miracles.htm
