Related: book, library

The Holy Bible (literally "Sun Book") is veiled communication of:
  Physical salvation through the creative power nature.
  Light and dark cycles of the sun and moon determine growth.
  Divide water from land to raise interdependent fungi, plants and animals.
  The Lord casts workers from Eden when they learn too much.
  The cheribum with flaming sword is a owner's vassal.
  The feudalist war cycle based on usury enforced hoarding.
  Other ideas: reverence, permaculture, tools, sex, transportation, sanitation


There is much to write here...  For now I pray.

LOLCatBible.com >>This is a new translation wiki to get the entire Bible translated into kitty pidgin (the language of lolcats).

Benny Hinn necromancing (fresh harvest etc.):
www.bible.ca/tongues-audio-video-documentation.htm


Creation-Science-Prophecy.com/brownbible/brownbible.html:
"'
The Brown Bible was written to study the assumptions of the Creationary Paradigm from the first 11 chapters of Genesis

Biblical Assumptions

The Brown Bible
The Beginnings of the Bible. Genesis 1 to the beginning of 12.
Click to get into the Brown Bible itself

      Creation
      Genesis 1:1 Creation Week
      Genesis 2:4 A Second Look at the Activities of the 6th Day: God Creates the Man and the Garden of Eden
      Genesis 2:16 God Created the Animals and Eve

      Sin Enters the World
      Genesis 2:25 Satan Tempts the Human Family to Sin
      Genesis 3:8 Adam and Eve Face their Creator After They Sinned
      Genesis 3:20 God Drives Adam and Eve Out of the Garden
      Genesis 4:1 Cain and Able
      Genesis 4:16 Cain Settles in the Land of Nod
      Genesis 4:25 Adam and Eve Start Over with Seth
      Genesis 5:1 Family History of Adam

      The Flood
      Genesis 6:1 God Decided to Destroy All But Noah Because of Sin
      Genesis 6:9 God Told Noah to Build an Ark
      Genesis 7:1 Noah Goes Into the Ark
      Genesis 7:17 After 40 Days, the Ark Starts Floating
      Genesis 7:21 All Land Creatures Not in the Ark, Died
      Genesis 7:24 God Remembers Noah After 150 Days and The Rain Stops
      Genesis 8:3 After the 150 Days, the Water Goes Down
      Genesis 8:14 Noah Comes Out of the Ark
      Genesis 8:20 Noah Offers Burnt Offerings to God
      Genesis 9:1 God Blesses Noah and His Sons and Instructs Them Concerning Eating and Killing
      Genesis 9:8 God Promices to Never Destroy the World With Water

      After The Flood
      Genesis 9:18 Canaan is Cursed Becaused of Exposed Family traits
      Genesis 10:1 The Family History of Shem, Ham, and Japheth
      Genesis 11:1 The Tower of Babel
      Genesis 11:10 The Family History of Shem
      Genesis 11:27 The Family History of Terah
      Genesis 12:1 God Calls Abram to Move Away From Family
      Joshua 1:8 The Way to be Prosperous and Successful

Creation Week
Genesis 1

   1. When God began to create the sky and the land,
   2. the land was a shapeless desolate (empty) waste and the surface of the ocean was in darkness. The Spirit of God moved gently over the water.
   3. Then God said, "Let there be light," and there was light.
   4. God saw that the light was pleasant and agreeable to the senses, so he separated the light from the darkness.
   5. And God named the light "day", and the darkness "night". Evening passed, and then morning. This was the first day.

   6. Then God said, "Let there be a great expanse of atmosphere between the waters to separate the water in two.
   7. So, God made the air that separated the water. He placed some of the water above the air and some below the air. And it happened.
   8. God named the atmosphere "sky". Evening passed, and then morning. This was the second day.

   9. Then God said, "Let the water under the sky be gathered together so that dry ground will appear." And so it happened.
  10. God named the dry ground "land" and the water that He gathered together, He called "seas". God saw that it was pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved it.
  11. Then God said, "Let the land sprout tender plants: some to make grain as seeds, and others to make fruits with the seeds in them. Each kind of seed will [only] produce its own kind of plant. And so it happened.
  12. The land sprouted tender plants of every kind, some sprouted as seed-bearing plants, and others sprouted as trees that made fruit with the seeds in them. Each kind of seed grew its own kind of plant. God saw that it was pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved it.
  13. Evening passed, and then morning. This was the third day.

  14. Then God said, "Let there be lights in the expanse of the sky to separate day from night. These lights will be used for signs, as tokens of God's promises; and to indicate seasons, days, and years.
  15. They will be in the expanse of the sky to give light to the land." And so it happened.
  16. Then God made two big lights. He made the brighter light to rule the day and He made the smaller light to rule the night and the stars.
  17. And God put them in the expanse of the sky to shine on the land,
  18. to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. God saw that all these things were good, they were pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved it.
  19. Evening passed, and then morning. This was the fourth day.

  20. Then God said, "Let the water be abundantly filled with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly in the expanse of the sky above the land."
  21. So God created the large sea animals and every living creature that moves in the sea. The sea is abundantly filled with these swarms of living creatures, with each one producing more of its own kind. He also made every bird that flies, and each bird produced more of its own kind. God saw that this was good, both pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved of it.
  22. God blessed them and said, "Have many young ones so that you may grow in number. Fill the water of the seas, and let the birds grow in number on the land."
  23. Evening passed, and then morning. This was the fifth day.

  24. Then God said, "Let the land be filled with animals, each producing more of its own kind. Let there be tame animals and small crawling animals and wild animals, and let each produce more of its kind." And so it happened.
  25. So God made the wild animals, the tame animals, and all the small crawling animals to produce more of their own kind. God saw that this was good, both pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved of it.
  26. Then God said, "Let Us make human beings in our image and likeness. And let them rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the animals, over all the land, and over all the small crawling animals on the land."
  27. So God created human beings in His image. In the image of God He created him. He created them male and female.
  28. God blessed them and said to them, "Have many children and grow in number. Fill the land and master it in order to serve God. Rule over the fish in the sea and over the birds in the sky and over every living thing that moves on the land."
  29. God said, "See, I have given you all the tender plants that are seed-bearing which are found over the whole land, and all the trees with sead-bearing fruit. They will be food for you to eat.
  30. I have given every green plant for food to every living thing, every bird that flies in the air, and every animal that walks on the ground." And so it happened.
  31. God looked at everything he had made, and it was very good, it was pleasant and agreeable to the senses so He approved it. Evening passed, and then morning. This was the sixth day.
'"
