Related: land, source, tool

Capital is the iterative application of design to space and mass through energy and previous capital.

Capital is sometimes defined as "'The result of mixing Land with Labor'".  By this definition Capital is but Land transformed.

Capitalism.org >>Capitalism is a social system based on the principle of individual rights. The term capitalism is used here in the broader philosophical political sense, and not in the narrower economic sense, i.e. a free-market.

OnTheCommons.org >>Capital 3.0

Capitalism3.com >>Recapturing the commons is going to be one of the century's biggest battles. Peter Barnes makes the case for the commons in a straightforward and unsentimental way. An indispensable book on a critical topic. -- Bill McKibben, author, The End of Nature



----
                CAPITAL

By touching the Seed as it falls from the Tree,
The Owner crys "'!Capital!'" and holds it unfree.

"'Forever!'"  The Owner screams with mouth full of cake.
"'Forever, It's mine!  I made it you see!'"

"'Well, I didn't make it as such, but nevermind;'"
"'I do own the rights, as I helped it to become.'"

"'For *I* bought this land, the water rights and seed.'"
"'*I* tilled the ground, and watered and sprayed.'"

"'Of course, I didn't do this purchasing myself.'"
"'Someone ELSE did that, but my investments did help.'"

"'And it's not like I picked up a shovel with my own hands.'"
"'We have 'people' for that!  We each have our 'place'.'"

"'I've worked so very hard; well, I mean it wasn't really me.'"
"'But I told the workers to work, and where else would we be?'"

"'Though, it's not like I actually told them myself.'"
"'I mean, that's the Manager's job.  He knows his part.'"

"'And it's not like I meet with Management as such,'"
"'But they do send me letters telling me what's up.'"

"'Informing me of the Profit I receive every season,'"
"'For being a shareholder in organizational treason.'"

"'So, ok, no, I actually didn't do any real work per-se,'"
"'But without me there would not even be any Trees!'"

"'For I am as a GOD in the value I add to this land.'"
"'I make cars, I make soda, I make tobacco and canned ham.'"

"'For it was my investment of money that helped fund that farm.'"
"'And without that Capital you all would just starve!'"

"'So don't cry to me about Owners taking too much.'"
"'We need never take, we OWN it all you blue-collar schmuck!'"

"'Listen to them beg: those who are against development sustained.'"
"'Let them plead for mercy, those who hate this Freedom of Trade.'"

"'Capital is my private property!'"
"'By OWNING these stocks I legally collect Usury.'"
----




Wikipedia.org/wiki/Relation_of_production:
"'
In Das Kapital, Marx illustrates the concept of relations of production with reference to Edward Gibbon Wakefield's theory of colonisation:

'...Wakefield discovered that in the Colonies, property in money, means of subsistence, machines, and other means of production, does not as yet stamp a man as a capitalist if there be wanting the correlative -- the wage-worker, the other man who is compelled to sell himself of his own free-will. He discovered that capital is not a thing, but a social relation between persons, established by the instrumentality of things. Mr. Peel, he moans, took with him from England to Swan River, West Australia, means of subsistence and of production to the amount of $50,000. Mr. Peel had the foresight to bring with him, besides, 3,000 persons of the working-class, men, women, and children. Once arrived at his destination, "Mr. Peel was left without a servant to make his bed or fetch him water from the river." Unhappy Mr. Peel, who provided for everything except the export of English modes of production to Swan River!"

http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1867-c1/ch33.htm Capital, vol. I, ch. 33
'"


xigi.net >>discover the capital market that invests in good
