Related: CHI-RHO, Jesus, oil, P, religion, SUN, X, Yeshua

Thomas Paine: "'The Christian religion and Masonry have one and the same common origin: both are derived from the worship of the sun. The difference between their origin is, that the Christian religion is a parody on the worship of the sun, in which they put a man whom they call Christ, in the place of the sun, and pay him the same adoration which was originally paid to the sun, as I have shown in the chapter on the origin of the Christian religion.

In Masonry many of the ceremonies of the Druids are preserved in their original state, at least without any parody. With them the sun is still the sun; and his image in the form of the sun is the great emblematical ornament of Masonic lodges and Masonic dresses. It is the central figure on their aprons, and they wear it also pendant on the breast of their lodges, and in their processions. It has the figure of a man, as at the head of the sun, as Christ is always represented.'" -- Deism.com/paine_essay12.htm


Christos, derived from Greek Ï‡ÏÎ¹Ï‰ (chrio) "to anoint". This was a name applied to Jesus by early Greek-speaking Christians. It is a translation of the Hebrew word (mashiyach) (commonly spelled in English messiah) which also means "anointed".

Original: Sacrifice output of nature for physical salvation.
Advertised: Sacrifice Isis/Krisna/Buddha/Jesus for spiritual salvation.
Veiled: Sacrifice evil humans for physical and spiritual salvation.
Veiled: Sacrifice self by kneeling in submission to the NWO.
Veiled: Sacrifice time by supporting the poor/war machine.


Achilles Adon Adonis Aeneas Ahura-Mazda Akkadian Anointed Aphrodite Aten Attis Atum Atunis Aztec Baal Bacchus Baldur Brahma Brahmanism Buddah Buddhism Cernunnos Christian Cronus Cybele Dacian Damuzi Demeter Dionysus Etruscan Father Gilgamesh Gullveig Heitsi Hercules Hermes Hindu Horus Horus (HER) Iasion Iasius Iaso Ieso Iesous Iesus Inanna Ishtar Isis Isis(Esu) Iu-em-hotep Iu-sa Iusa Jason Je-Zeus Jesus Julunggul Khoikhoi Khunsu King Krishna Marduk Mithras Mitra Norse Oasis Orpheus Osiris Persephone Perseus Phrygia Prometheus Proserpina Pythagoras Sabazius Sargon Serapis Shamash Siva Sumerian Taht Tammuz Theseus Thoth Totec Trimurti Vishnu Wawalag Xipe Yea-Zeus Yea-sus Yeshua Zagreus Zalmoxis Zeus Zoroaster

Iraq is another Christ.
Shock and awe crucify.
US are Roman soldiers.
Compliant politicians and complacent citizens are Judas.
Corporatist media congratulatory propaganda is evangelic praise in the name of salvation.


From one of the god channel radio stations I hear sing: >>I am saved because you were betrayed.

Christs are rebirth gods, the phoenix, the redemption, the ressurection, which fits their duality as sun gods.

Mithraism:  [Cumont, Ulansey]
	Virgin birth (creation)
	Twelve disciples (months)
	Killing and resurrection (sacrifice and cycles)
	Miracles (permaculture is free lunch!)
	Birthdate on December 25 (sun begins yearly return three days after the winter solstice)
	Morality (Usury is the real sin)
	Mankind's savior (meeting needs is physical salvation)
	Known as the Light of the world (sun cycle is most obvious part of permaculture)


TruthBeKnown.com JesusNeverExisted.com LibChrist.com


"'The Jesus story incorporated elements from the tales of other deities recorded in this widespread area, such as many of the following world saviors and "sons of God," most or all of whom predate the Christian myth, and a number of whom were crucified or executed:

    * Adad of Assyria
    * Adonis, Apollo, Heracles ("Hercules") and Zeus of Greece
    * Alcides of Thebes
    * Attis of Phrygia
    * Baal of Phoenicia
    * Bali of Afghanistan
    * Beddru of Japan Buddha of India
    * Crite of Chaldea
    * Deva Tat of Siam
    * Hesus of the Druids Horus,
    * Osiris, and Serapis of Egypt, whose long-haired, bearded appearance was adopted for the Christ character
    * Indra of Tibet/India
    * Jao of Nepal
    * Krishna of India
    * Mikado of the Sintoos
    * Mithra of Persia
    * Odin of the Scandinavians
    * Prometheus of Caucasus/Greece
    * Quetzalcoatl of Mexico
    * Salivahana of Bermuda
    * Tammuz of Syria (who was, in a typical mythmaking move, later turned into the disciple Thomas)
    * Thor of the Gauls
    * Universal Monarch of the Sibyls
    * Wittoba of the Bilingonese
    * Xamolxis of Thrace
    * Zarathustra/Zoroaster of Persia
    * Zoar of the Bonzes
'" -- PaganizingFaithOfYeshua.NetFirms.com



"'COMPARISON OF THE NATION'S SUNGODS WITH THE "JESUS STORY" OF THE NEW TESTAMENT: WHY ARE THEY THE SAME STORIES?

{short description of image}

The traditional history of Christianity is hopelessly inadequate to the facts that exist behind not only the origin of traditional Christianity but the depiction of "Jesus Christ" of the New Testament. For many Christians the knowledge contained on this website will be not only "new" but "shocking" in light of the traditional and historic teaching of Christianity down through the centuries. What I will show the reader is that Christianity was not a new revelation. It, and its teachings centered upon their "literal" and "historical Jesus Christ" is nothing more than a gross misrepresentation of what the Ancient Wisdom Religions taught about the Spiritual Concept of "the Christ" since the dawn of recorded time.

Answer for yourself: How can we know this for sure?

Your serious study into this area of concern for the Christian will reveal to you many things. First of all{short description of image} thousands of years before Jesus, there was another passion story told about a God man, born of a virgin mother, in a stable. He travels about with his followers, preaching and performing miracles, including turning water into wine. Eventually, he incurs the wrath of the religious authorities, who are appalled that he refers to himself as a god. He allows himself to be arrested and tried for blasphemy. He is found guilty and executed and crucified only to rise from the grave three days later, where the women weeping at his tomb do not recognize him until he assumes his divine form-as the God Dionysus/Baccus. This picture reveals to you the icon for this ancient story that predates our "Jesus Story" by thousands of years. You see this personified solar deity and his "crucifixion" on the Cross of the Sun depicted in the religious icon that predates Christianity by thousands of years.

Serious study into this area will show you, for example, that there is an inscription in the Vatican that states plainly, "He who will not eat of my body, nor drink of my blood, so that he may be one with{short description of image} me and I with him, shall not be saved." This is not terribly surprising, unless you consider that this is inscribed on the remains of the temple the Vatican was built on one dedicated to the God Mithras. Such eerie parallels between the pronouncements of Jesus and Mithras are not the only similarities between the two religions. Mithras was known to his followers as "The light of the world," or "The good shepherd," and exhorted his followers to share ritual communion. Mithras was also reputedly born in a cave, with shepherds in attendance, on the twenty-fifth of December.

Answer for yourself: Are these just coincidences?

Consider this. Several other Gods share the December birthday, and like Mithras, they are also solar deities, who are born in the Winter Solstices, often of virgin mothers, die, and are reborn. One of these, a {short description of image}pre-Christian deity called Attis, was called "The lamb of God," and his crucifixion and{short description of image} subsequent resurrection were celebrated annually, with ritual communions of bread and wine. His virgin mother, Cybele, was worshipped as "The Queen of heaven." It gets more interesting the further back we look- Attis and Cybele's predecessors are the Babylonian Goddess Ishtar, and her consort Tammuz. It is from their legend that we get the name for the annual celebration of the resurrection of Christ at Easter, a name of the Goddess Ishtar. This is not the only coincidence related to this ancient couple. The earliest use of the cross as a religious symbol is related to Tammuz! The Solar cross is probably the oldest religious symbol in the world, appearing in Asian, American, European, and Indian religious art from the dawn of history. Composed of a equal armed cross within a circle, it represents the solar calendar and the movements of the Sun, marked by the Solstices. Sometimes the Equinoxes are marked as well, giving an eight armed wheel. The swastika is also a form of Solar cross. In fact, crosses are related to a variety of solar deities because of the Vernal Equinox where the Sun rises from the Southern Hemisphere into the Northern Hemisphere and in so doing the Sun rises above the "intersection of ecliptical{short description of image} orbit of the Earth around the Sun and its own Celestial Equator; the two intersections of these Astronomical Planes forming a "cross" in the Heavens (the Sun, "personified as the Son", was "crucified on a cross" in the Heavens before the foundation of the world).

Common to all of these 'mystery' religions (so called because one was required to be initiated or baptized into the faith to learn its doctrines), including early Christianity, are themes of rebirth, redemption, and the transmission of life-changing information. So many religions in those times shared similar themes with that usually the deities became melded together. Early depictions of Jesus show him holding the Lyre of Orpheus, or driving Apollo's chariot. A talisman bearing the crucified likeness of Osiris-Dionysus is inscribed Orpheus/Bacchus which is shown above.

It is impossible to tell just by looking at old artwork which haloed infant gods are cuddled in the arms of which {short description of image}mothers. The Emperor Constantine, who legitimized Christianity in Rome, was a worshipper of Sol Invictus- an amalgamation of solar deities Mithras, Helios, and Apollo-and he recognized Jesus' place in that company almost immediately. Even today, ancient solar symbols abound in Christian iconography.

Of course, later Christians were terribly perturbed by these similarities to Pagan religions. These coincidences so disturbed one early Christian church father, Justin Martyr, that he accused the devil of sending an imitator of Christ in advance. Had he paid a little more attention to the past, he might have noted{short description of image} that the association of Jesus with Dionysus is not so strange-philosophers had been making connections between Jehovah and Dionysus for centuries.

Answer for yourself: What are we to make of all of this? What I will show by the preponderance of evidences is that today's Christianity is nothing more than a "literalized" continuation of what Christianity braggingly declares as "Paganism" but only later "literalized" and "reinterpreted" and presented by another name. The evidence will show that the gospel story of Jesus is not the biography of an historical Messiah. Judaism has maintained that the "Christian Jesus" is not their Jewish Messiah for over two thousand years and have done so for good reason. Their Rabbis know what Christian supposed scholars refuse to admit for various reasons. The facts will show as presented on this website that the "Jesus of the Christian Gospels" is but a later reworking of ancient Pagan myths of the dying and resurrecting Solar Godman Osiris-Dionysus as seen in the picture, which had been popular for centuries throughout the ancient Mediterranean long before the supposed time for the New Testament Jesus.
All Indo-Germanic nations have worshipped crucified Saviors and overwhelming proof was obtained that the sun-myths of the ancient Aryans were the origin of the religion in all of the countries which were peopled by the Aryan...Charles Morris 1899
"And there is no new thing under the sun"...Eccl 1:9 (b)

Answer for yourself: Can you agree with the following statement?

"A Christian's religious belief system, when tested and exposed to contradictory facts and evidence from Biblical languages, Biblical history, Biblical culture, and Archeology, Astronomy, Astro-Theology, Christian Gnosticism, and Modern Scholarship must in the Spirit of Truth and Repentance, be flexible enough to change..."...Craig M. Lyons M.Div.

GETTING READY FOR THE MOST SERIOUS BIBLE STUDY YOU HAVE EVER DONE

Answer for yourself: Now, for the biggest question you will ever be asked? Do you want to know the truth about the "Jesus Christ" of the Gospels before you die?

If you don't then this web site is not for you.

    * Finding The Truth About The Christ In The "Jesus Story" Of The New Testament

I trust you read the above article and are prepared for the forthcoming studies. I only present the reader with the facts and knowledge which has been kept from you by an organized religion which has long lost the truth about what they preach. You might not know this but the early Christians were charged with being a sect of sun-worshippers! "Impossible," you say. Well you better hold on for just a minute because it is easily provable that the same "religious beliefs" defended by the Ancient Wisdom sages in their debates against and with many early Gentile Church Fathers are yet today the very backbone of Gentile Christianity and their religious doctrines but only "reinterpreted" and "literalized" by Rome. What still amazes me and what escapes most Christians today is that historical investigation of many of these "debates" provides the multiple evidence that testifies to the fact that the early Christians and Church Fathers acknowledged that they had in fact copied the pagans and their beliefs and merged such beliefs into the "Christian Faith" of Rome. Astounding! If you doubt this in the least then click on the link and learn the truth. Let me give you a couple of quotes to prepare you for what you will find:

Eusebius says that "the names of Jesus and Christ were both known and honored by the ancients" (Hist. Eccl. lib. i. ch. iv). This seems almost impossible until you read the name and religious concept of Jesus Christ in Ancient Egypt!

Now a quote from Augustine:

"That which is known as the Christian religion existed among the ancients, and never did not exist; from the beginning of the human race until the time when Christ came in the flesh, at which time the true religion, which already existed began to be called Christianity". (Retractt. I, xiii, cited by Dr. Alvin Boyd Kuhn in his Shadow of The Third Century, Elizabeth N.J.: Academy Press, 1949, p.3).

Please take the time to re-read these two quote which is just the tip of the iceberg about the truth behind the Roman presentation of the Ancient Spiritual Concept from Ancient Egypt concerning the Karest; or as we call it today "Jesus Christ".
TIME TO GET SERIOUS ABOUT STUDY AND THE TRUTH BEHIND THE PARALLEL LIVES OF THE NATION'S SUNGODS AND THE NEW TESTAMENT'S JESUS CHRIST

My life has been one long arduous study of religion as an ordained Pastor since graduating Southwestern Theological Seminary in 1988. After the first 7 years of such study I was forced to resign my Pastorate as a Christian Pastor having been thoroughly convinced that I was not teaching the truth concerning the "Jesus Story" nor "the Christ" but only reiterating an aberrant tradition that had strayed so distantly from the truths of the Ancients concerning not only "the Karest/Christ" but the "Jewish Messiah" as well whom was believed to be "the Christ" by Roman Christianity. It is hard for us today to imagine the "Jesus Story" being consciously created, but this is because we have misunderstood ancient spirituality.To the Ancients religious myths were not seen as untruths as they are now. They were understood as allegories of Divine Truths and Spiritual initiation, which encoded profound mystical and metaphysical teachings concerning God and the working of His Cosmos. Reworking old myths to create new ones was a standard practice in the ancient world and explains how each successive nation down through time, from Egypt on down, has the "same story" but only changes the names of these "Spiritual Metaphors" or Sungods. The conquests of Alexander the Great had turned the Mediterranean world into one culture with a common language. This created an age of eclecticism, much like our own, in which different spiritual traditions met and synthesized. Jewish mystics of this period, such as Philo Judeas, were obsessed with synthesizing Jewish and Pagan mythology. In light of all this, it is actually no surprise that various groups of mystics should synthesize the great mythic hero of the Jews, the Messiah, with the great mythic hero of the Pagans, Osiris-Dionysus.

What we fail to realize and understand today is that 2,000 years ago, both Pagans and Christians were well aware that the "Jesus Story" was only a Spiritual Myth concerning the Descent of the Soul into matter (flesh). The early Christians, known as Gnostics, understood the "Jesus Story" as only allegory, not history, and even called Jesus by the names of the Pagan Godman. The Gnostics were brutally eradicated by the Roman Church in the 4th and 5th centuries, and since then in light of Rome's "literalization" of these earlier Spiritual Allegories of the nations "godmen" we have tragically been taught to believe a gross "misinterpretation" of these Ancient Divine Truths held sacred by the Ancients and have tragically believed the official propaganda that these earlier Gnostic Christians were dangerous heretics who had gone Pagan.

Today Archeology and Modern Scholarship is setting us free from such distortions of Spiritual Truths which Rome has given the world with their depiction of "the Jesus Christ". Actually the evidence suggests, as I will show on this website, that the opposite understanding of "Jesus" as held by these Gnostic Christians is closer to the truth and that the Christian "Jesus Story" is little more than the personification of the movement of the Sun through the Heavens which is told today in the Roman New Testament as if "historical" and "literal" truth. The facts today substantiate without a doubt that the Gnostics were the original Christians (followers of "the Christ") just as they themselves claimed and they never taught a "historical" or "literal" Christ since they knew "the Christ" dwells within the hearts and souls of every child of God awaiting "resurrection" and awareness by each person as they Spiritually mature. Roman Christianity, and all its subsequent offshoots, is based on the idea that if you believe in the existence of an historical Jesus you will go to heaven when you die and not suffer the pangs of Hell. For the Gnostics, however, Jesus is a personification of the Descent of the Divine into mankind and if man lived according to the "pattern" symbolized by the "Jesus myth", you would die to your old self/flesh and resurrect in a new way. The Greek word we translate as "resurrect" also means "awaken" (to your Divine Nature and live accordingly". For the Gnostics, Christianity was about dying -- the idea of giving up your mortal body and awakening to your immortal essence as "the Christ within" ­- the One Consciousness of the Universe. This mystical enlightenment was not something that happened after death, but could happen here and now. The Roman Church was a later deviation from these Ancient Truths about "the Descent of the Karest/Christ", which misunderstood and consequently misrepresented the "Jesus Story" as history. It was, as the Gnostics said at the time, an false presentation of "the Christ" designed for the masses, a vehicle if you will to control the masses through fear of damnation since Rome made their "reinterpretation" of "the Christ" the "only way to Heaven and God".

Actually there is barely a shred of evidence for the existence of an historical Jesus and this dissolves on closer inspection. Paul, the earliest Christian source, shows no knowledge of an historical man, only a mystical Christ. The gospels have been thoroughly discredited as eyewitness reports. Other bits of traditional evidence, such as references to Jesus by the Jewish historian Josephus, have been shown to be later forgeries. If solid evidence had existed, there would have been no need to have created such fabrications.

After reading hundreds of books over those years and studying usually 5 hours a day, year after year, I have come to see without a doubt that all the world's religions, including Christianity, are nothing more than rewritten versions of an older story held dear by the earliest sages and priest of mankind that can be found on this planet; namely, the story of the birth, death, and rebirth of the Sun as it makes it circuit through the sky and the Zodiac once a year.

Please understand that I would not make such a statement unless I could prove it beyond any doubt to the interested reader

The summary of my studies these past twenty years can be summarized and categorized rather easily in 3 basic classifications which you will see yourself if you undertake similar studies. I found that there are three schools of thought down through history concerning the interpretation of just whom is this "Jesus Christ"! The following are the 3 different interpretations of "the Christ" we find in history. Only two of the following understandings are correct; the last of the three is a bogus misrepresentation of the prior two.

    * The Mythical Jesus Christ (the personification of the Sun as it moves on its prescribed path through the Heavens where we find it moving through each house of the Zodiac which goes hand in hand with the changing seasons of the year [Spring Equinox, Summer Solstice, Autumn Equinox, Winter Solstice]. Expressed in allegory it details the Descent of the Soul into matter and its pattern for intended maturation in mankind). This allegory will be later "literalized" and "historicized" and confined to just one person, the Jesus of Rome's invention.
    * The Mystical Jesus Christ (the allegorical expression of a hidden teaching of "gnosis", a secret doctrine, given under strict and exacting conditions to approved candidates by the Ancient Masters of Spiritual Wisdom regarding the descent of the Logos (God-Soul) into matter, ie., mankind). Believe it or not we find that the real authentic Paul speaks of this in the New Testament:

Col 1:27 27 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory: (KJV)

    * The Historical Jesus Christ (the most recent, the presentation of "the Christ" as taught through the medium of a presumed historical person to serve as an example for all mankind to emulate and follow). This is Rome's contribution.

We find upon analysis that the Laws of God, expressed in the Heavens above and in Nature below reveal to us the metaphysical nature of the "God/Christ" in matter (ultimately us as mankind who are to respond to living these same Laws of order that expound the Spiritual identity of man's Soul). One does not and this is the antinomian Roman view of the Law of Judaism and God which they made sure their New Testament degraded and nullifies.

On entering now on the study of the life of "the Christ", of the rites of Christianity, its sacraments, it doctrines, it would be disastrous to ignore the facts presented by comparative mythologists and religionists down through history. These facts regarding the identity of "Jesus Christ", rightly understood, hold the "key" to answering the biggest question ever posed to mankind: "Who is Jesus Christ"?

Matt. 16:13 ... Who do you say I am?

If you are a typical Christian you might not like the answers you find on this website but dear one "truth is truth" no matter how hard its hurts to only find it at the middle or end of your earthly existence. Over the many, many years of my religious studies following Seminary the puzzle pieces slowly came together and the answers to problematic questions came to ease my concern for the "swiss cheese" theology that I was taught there. It was in Seminary that I first discovered, to my horror and astonishment, that many of the "Jesus Stories" were remarkable parallels with earlier "Sun god" stories from a host of Aryan nations. What I did not know then and what escapes the vast majority of Christianity in today's world is that many of the stories of these "solar gods" and "godmen" down through history which parallel the events in the life of the New Testament "Christ" as found in the New Testament and which appear at first thought to be apparently historical were understood only allegorically in the beginning. This "pattern" of the Descent of the Soul would be acknowledge by nation after nation down through recorded time. This explains why that all these Sungods, the stories of Osiris, Horus, Dionysus, Attis, Adonis, Mithra, and a host of others, read like the New Testament "Jesus Story". They told the mystical and metaphysical story of the Descent of the Soul into mankind. Nowhere, perhaps, is it more necessary to understand this than when we are studying the story of Jesus (called in this website the "Jesus Story"), surnamed "the Christ", for when we fail to separate the allegory from the literal truth,{short description of image} and see where the symbols have been mistakenly taken and believed as "historical events, allegories as histories" to which have become our only way to God and Heaven according to Rome, we lose most of the instructiveness of the narrative and much of its "Eternal Truths" once given to the Ancient Spiritual Masters by the Creator. Men fear that Christianity will be weakened when one comes to this understanding, and that it is "dangerous" to admit that events thought to be "historical" have a deeper significance in both a "mythical" and "mystic meaning". That simply is not the case but those who advocate not delving into these deeper areas of understanding of "the Christ" keep others from recovering the truths concerning "the Christ" as the Ancients who gave us those concepts understood them and "the Christ" in the first place. Let us not forget that as Egypt taught in the beginning of recorded history mankind was made in the image of God and not God in the image of man! The "halo", or nimbus, surrounding the picture of Jesus above should be a "tip off" that there is much about this "Jesus Christ" that escapes our simple understanding of him as presented by the typical false "historical" understanding of him handed down in Roman Christianity today. Inquiring minds should want to know:
"Who really is this Jesus Christ of the New Testament and why can the chronological events of his life as written and recorded in the New Testament be shown to be a perfect parallels to the lives of the Gentile nations sungods. How can that be if the Christian Jesus Christ is supposed to be a Divine - Unique Revelation from God?

{short description of image}

Now you don't have to believe a word I said above in my commentary. The facts I present will remove all doubt about the truths that you read above that you were possibly too alarmed to believe at first reading. Bet Emet Ministries has presented over the last several years the collective research and data gathered from our scholarly study of "the Christ" and have presented this presentation in various websites on the Internet. But this presentation of the "parallels between the Mythical sungods and the supposed historical Jesus Christ" is the most explosive revelation concerning "Jesus Christ" yet to date.

It is not my desire to harm anyone or their "faith" but truth should matter to you and me; especially if we love God and desire to know as much about Him in our lives today. Much of what we at Bet Emet Ministries share with our readership will be new information to the vast majority of our readers mainly because Roman Christianity has chosen not to teach these Spiritual Truths and to a large extent down through history suppressed them. Just because you have never heard of some of what we write does not mean it is not true; it only means you have not seen it yet in your corner church house.

Prov 3:3-4 3 Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart: 4 So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man. (KJV)

Prov 23:23 23 Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding. (KJV)

What passages! Truth is not free today; it costs you sometime. First of all it costs you time and energy where you invest your life to confirm what you read from Bet Emet to be the "ultimate truth". We have done our homework for over 20 years well and unto the Lord. It is our gift to all mankind because of our love for God and all His children; many of which never dreamed like I once before I began serious study into my faith that I could have believed "lies" given me by Rome instead of "truth" in my relationship with God and His "Christ".

Prov 12:17 17 He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit. (KJV)

Let me warn you that as we study that you will see that we approach the "Jesus Story" in this website from a "LITERAL" perspective (because that is how it was taught to all of us) and will draw from it patterns of conduct and behavior to be followed by all of mankind (well after all it is the story of "the Soul"), and we have done just that; in fact that is where we started with our presentation of a "Jesus Christ" from a literal perspective in our ministry's earlier websites hoping to expose the "dejudiazation" of this "Christ" by Rome on the pages of their New Testament. Let us not forget that Judaism is a religion that teaches us to live as "God's Christ" in the world. In so doing we tried to expose how Rome replaced the concept of the Jewish Messiah with one of their own making as well as show how the Laws and Commandments of God are in effect today and are the very building blocks for the intended Spiritual Maturation of our Souls.

But more to the point of this website although we approach the "Jesus Story" literally we are troubled from the beginning of this study if we take as authentic this "literal-historical" understanding of Jesus Christ because of the numerous parallels from the life of Jesus in the New Testament, for example, in Matt. chapter 1 to Matt. chapter 28, and their identical counterparts taken from the hundreds of similar events and similar sayings of Jesus Christ with those of the Ancient nation's Sungods since the beginning of time. Of great concern for each Christian who has been taught that their salvation is based upon their personal belief in this supposed "dying and resurrecting historical Jesus Christ" are the numerous unbelievable parallels of the "allegorical" Sungods down through history since Ancient Egypt.

Unknown to most Christians are the areas of study involving these Savior-Gods of Ancient antiquity and these unbelievable parallels with our "Jesus Story". Great scholars have made available in our day this information unaccessible to most Christians only 150 years ago. Scholars like Sir. James Frazier in the Golden Bough and Grant Allen inThe Evolution of The Idea of God have shown us the overlap between the vegetation gods and the "Jesus Story". Great scholars like Count Volney in The Ruins of Empires, Charles Dupuis in The Origin Of All Religious Work, Gerald Massey in Ancient Egypt Vol I and II, Dr. Albert Churchward in The Origin and Evolution of Religion, Dr. Alvin Boyd Kuhn in The Shadow of the Third Century, John Robertson in Christianity and Mythology and Christianity Before Christ, Godfrey Higgins in Anacalypsis Vol. I and II, Edward Carpenter in Pagan and Christian Creeds and Rev. Robert Taylor in The Devil's Pulpit have made available to us today the information showing that the "Jesus Story" is the same identical story taken from stellar, lunar, and solar myths of antiquity. I have read each of these books and encourage the interested reader to do the same in order to remove all doubt as to what this website teaches.

But there is good news. Behind the corruption of the original Sungod stories and the corruption of the "Karest/Christ" by Rome lays an unbelievable wealth of Divine Knowledge regarding God and the operation of His Cosmos that impacts mankind and the "true Karest/Christ". These Ancient nations had a very good reason for capturing these Metaphysical Divine Truths about God, the Descent of the Soul into matter, the birth, life, death, rebirth and reincarnation of the Divine Energy of God in man and this was captured for all time through the agency of religious myths as found in these Sungod stories. These Sungods were never understood to be "literal" people and the "Jesus Story" being the identical story is very problematic for faith in a supposed "historical person" of the first century. These Sungod stories are all the same for a reason; they tell the same story of the Invisible Energy-Consciousness of the Universe whom we call "God" becoming matter, becoming flesh and living in and through His earthly creation of mankind. These stories of these sungods gives us, the modern readers of these myths today, a design for the marriage of body and Soul, life and death, the tangible and the hidden. Behind these simple stories conveyed in religious myths is "our story" of "the Christ" being formed in us; the mystery hidden from the foundation of the world which is not revealed to the Gentiles of the world.

Col 1:27 27 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory: (KJV)

According to the original Gnostic Christians, the "Jesus Story" is a perennial myth with the power to impart the mystical experience of Gnosis, which can transform each one of us into a "living Christ", not merely a history of events that supposedly happened to someone else two thousand years ago.

Answer for yourself: Can I prove such statements that I have made above? Is there uncontrovertible evidence that the Jesus Christ of Christianity is but the "literalization" and "carnalization" by Rome of Ancient religious myths that have existed for over ten thousand years?

Well, that is what this website is about. I will demonstrate to the reader what I have said by laying out such evidences for your inspection and introspection. The goal of such a study is not to reject Christianity but rather to interpret its symbols and spiritual literature correctly and by doing that elevate our lives before God whereby we live in "truth" and not "error and fiction" because our behaviors and actions are motivated by what we believe. If we believe a lie then our lives reflect the lies and this does not bode well for us in the judgment after our death. With such a goal set before us we begin a serious study, possible the most eye-opening study that you have ever undertaken. But understand that you, if reared a Christian, will need all the courage and fortitude you can muster to work through this website for it will touch all of your emotions and challenge the typical Christian to his utmost being and at times leave you breathless. But your final destination is "TRUTH" and let nothing in your life stop you from reaching this destination for God has never lied to us and never gave us a falsehood as large as the "Literal Jesus Story" which Rome has done and which we have been fed to us in the Western Hemisphere our whole lives. We embark to such a destination of undeniable truth right now by following the following links.

Answer for yourself: Is Gentile Christianity, as seen today, a Divine and unique Revelation or is it just a synthesis of the many variations of sun-worship as found around the globe in the many Gentile nations which find the origin of their religions in the oldest religion known to man....Sun worship? What impact should this have upon our belief in an assumed historical Jesus which died for us in order that we might inherit Eternal Life? How can other nations like Biblical Judaism teach obtaining Eternal Life without a "historical Jesus"? What do they know that we as Christians don't?

Answer for yourself: If I wanted to study on my own to verify what Pastor Craig is teaching what are the best books to read in order that I might know for certain the truths behind our inherited "Jesus Story"?

    * Craig Lyons M.Div.
    * 902 Cardigan
    * Garland, Texas 75040

Let Us Examine The Evidence

{short description of image}Bennoah1@airmail.net
'"
