Related: community, operate, Consumer Capital Cooperative



Credit Unions are usually considered cooperative.

NCBA.Coop >>Developing, advancing & protecting cooperative business.
"'
A cooperative is a business. Co-ops range in size from small store-fronts to large Fortune 500 companies. In many ways, they're like any other business; but in several important ways they're unique and different.
Cooperatives

    * Are owned and democratically controlled by their members-the people who use the co-op's services or buy its goods-not by outside investors; Co-op members elect their board of director from within the membership.

    * Return surplus revenues (income over expenses and investment) to members proportionate to their use of the cooperative, not proportionate to their "investment" or ownership share.

    * Are motivated not by profit, but by service-to meet their members' needs or affordable and high quality goods or services; Exist solely to serve their members.

    * Pay taxes on income kept within the co-op for investment and reserves. Surplus revenues from the co-op are returned to individual members who pay taxes on that income.
'"

ManchesterFilm.Coop

YouCoop.org >>Platoniq's YOUCOOP is an online research platform born from the experiences with the Bank of Common Knowledge project (BCK). This platform gathers our research lines, texts about our methodologies and practical examples, such as games and significant projects created by other actors who are close to Platoniq's philosophy and practice. Basically, YOUCOOP contents want to spread alternatives able to apply the working methods of the Internet and P2P to several environments such as education, economics and social innovation.

CooperationCommons.com >>The Cooperation Commons aims to create an interdisciplinary study of cooperation and collective action...

NetworkCultures.org/geert/out-cooperating-the-empire-exchange-with-christoph-spehr



SourceOpen.org
DemoTech.org
EcoTecture.com
SelfHelpCorp.com
CommunitiesByChoice.org
AgroEcology.org
Media.MIT.edu/~nitin/
Abundance-Ecovillage.com

ICECLT.org >>The Institute for Community Economics (ICE) is a national community development organization promoting economic justice through community land trusts (CLTs) and community investment. As the originator of the CLT model, ICE has supported the growth of CLTs across the United States and Canada. ICE is also a certified Community Development Financial Institution with an $11 million loan fund which provides financing to CLTs and other non-profit groups. ICE has assisted hundreds of grassroots organizations to build or rehabilitate thousands of units of permanently affordable housing in both rural and urban neighborhoods throughout the country.

Walden3.org
Okeonux.org
Open.coop
Permakultur.net
Shelter.org
Sustainable.org

Cooporatism is a rewrite of Communityism which came from the "Communityism rough draft" and "Peace on Earth".


The GPL is a cooporative agreement.  Most other Open Source
CoopOS could be a Cooporative scheduling Operating System.

Trademark/patent/Copyright info:
Coopoly, Cooporacy, Coopolis
 dualistic symbology is a syncretism of:
    Dominate non-humans
    Dehydrate fruit
    Cut wood
    Murder weeds
    Shovel soil
    Sacrifice creatures
    Tan hide
    Dehydrate fruit
    CHI RHO

Cooporation is pragmatic, corporate cooperatism.
Coopolies are colorful collective corporations.
