Related: grove

CreamationOfCare.com

JonesReport.com/articles/270607_cremation_of_care.html

Portland.IndyMedia.org/en/2002/11/35127.shtml 

"'
    The Bohemian Club was founded in 1872 by artists and journalists in the San Francisco Bay Area. The annual summer camp is held at "Bohemian Grove", a secluded campground in California's Sonoma County, near the town of Monte Rio. This is the location of an annual gathering of the elite during midsummer. Speeches are given, also known as the "Lakeside Talks". An occult celebration takes place that is referred to as the "Cremation of Care". This is the transcript of this occult ceremony from the video "Dark Secrets Inside Bohemian Grove" shot by Alex Jones.

    The Owl is in His leafy temple
    Let all within the grove be reverent before Him.
    Lift up your heads oh ye trees
    And be lifted up ye everlasting spires
    For behold here is Bohemia's shrine
    And holy are the pillars of this house.

    Weaving spiders come not here!

    Hail, Bohemians!
    With the ripple of waters
    The song of birds
    Such music as inspires the sinking soul
    Do we invite you into Midsummer's joy.
    The sky above is blue and sown with stars
    The forest floor is heaped with fragrant grit
    The evening's cool kiss is yours
    The campfire's glow
    The birth of rosy fingered dawn.
    For behold, here is Bohemia's shrine
    And holy are the pillars of his house
    Shake off your sorrows with the city's dust
    And cast to the winds the cares of life.
    But memories bring back the well-loved names of gallant friends
    Who knew and loved this grove
    Dear boom companions of a long ago
    Aye, let them join us in this ritual!
    And not a piece be empty in our midst.
    All of these battles to hold
    In this gray autumn of the world
    Or in the springtime of your heart.
    Attend our tale
    Gather ye forest folks!
    And cast your spells over these mortals
    Touch their world-blind eyes with carry-on
    Open their eyes to fancy
    Follow the memories of yesterday
    And seal the gates of sorrow.
    It is a dream
    And yet, not all a dream
    Dull Care in all of his works
    Harbored it
    As vanished Babylon and goodly Tyre
    So shall they also vanish
    But the wilding rose blows on the broken battlements of Tyre
    And moss rends the stones of Babylon
    For beauty is eternal
    And we bow to beauty everlasting
    For lasting happiness we turn our eyes to one alone,
    And she surrounds you now.
    Great nature, refuge of the weary heart,
    And only balm to breasts that have been bruised.
    She hath cool hands for every fevered brow
    And gentlest silence for the troubled soul.
    Her councils are most wise
    She healeth well
    Having such ministries as calm and sleep
    She is ever faithful
    Other friends may fail
    But seek ye her in any quiet place
    Smiling, she will rise and give to you her kiss
    So must ye come as children
    Little children that believe do not ever doubt her beauty or her faith
    Nor deem her tenderness can change or die
    Bohemians and priests!
    The desperate call of heavy hearts is answered.
    By the power of your fellowship, Dull Care is slain
    His body has been brought yonder to our funeral pyre
    To the joyous singings of a funeral march;
    Our funeral pyre awaits the corpse of Care
    O thou, thus ferried across the shadowy tide
    In all the ancient majesty of death
    Dull Care, ardent enemy of beauty
    Not for thee the forgiveness or the restful grave
    Fire shall have its will of thee
    And all the winds make merry with thy dust
    Bring fire!

    Fools!
    Fools!
    Fools!
    When will ye learn
    That me ye cannot slay?
    Year after year ye burn me in this grove
    Lifting your puny shouts of triumph to the stars.
    When again you turn your faces to the marketplace
    Do you not find me waiting as of old?
    Fools!
    Fools!
    Fools to dream you conquer care.

    Say Thou mocking spirit!
    It is not all a dream
    We know thou waiting for us
    When this out sylvan holiday has ended
    We shall meet thee and fight thee as of old
    And some of us prevail against thee
    And some thou shall destroy
    But this too we know
    Year after year within this happy grove
    Our fellowship bans thee for a space
    Thine malevolence which would pursue us here
    Has lost its power under these friendly trees.
    So shall we burn thee once again this night
    And, with the flames that eat thine effigy
    We shall read the sign
    Midsummer sets us free!

    Ye shall burn me once again!
    Not with these flames!
    Which hither ye have brought
    From regions where I reign
    Ye fools and priests
    I spit upon your fire!

    O Owl! Prince of all mortal wisdom
    Owl of Bohemia, we beseech thee
    Grant us thy council

    No fire…
    No fire…
    No fire…
    Let it be in the world
    Where care is nourished
    On the hates of men
    And drive Him from this grove.
    One flame alone must light this fire
    One flame alone must light this fire
    A pure eternal flame
    At last, within the lamp of Fellowship
    Upon the altar of Bohemia.

    O Great Owl of Bohemia!
    We thank thee for thy adjuration.
    Begone detested care!
    Begone!
    Once more, we banish thee!
    Begone Dull Care!
    Fire should have its will of thee!
    Begone Dull Care!
    And all the winds make merry with thy dust
    Hail, fellowship's eternal flame!
    Once again Midsummer sets us free!

'"
