Cycles of nature and time:

Azoth System Precess: some say 25,800 years, others say 41,000 years.

Sun year ~= 356 days

Moon month ~= 30 days

Other
  water
  organic life: sex, birth, growth, death

Artificial cycles:
  12 months
  52 Weeks
  12 hrs
  60 minutes
  60 seconds

Many religions worship and make commerce difficult or illegal on Sunday.

achemical: oroborus

recycle:
FreeCycle.org "'changing the world one gift at a time'"
strut.org students recycling used technology
utahrecycles.org/pages/links.htm
slvswmf.net/
resyk.net/intro.html
harktheherald.com/article.php?sid=83475&mode=thread&order=0


"'
Eleusinian Mysteries.


Life, death, rebirth approaches to hermeneutics, the naturalistic explication has more support in ancient sources. These rituals were closely linked to the cycle of seasons, as when Athenian women planted "gardens of Adonis" in pots and then, when the young green growth withered in the heat of the summer, wept for the dead young god. Already in Antiquity, the rationalizing approach of Aristotle could be elaborated to a rigidly naturalistic interpretation of myth origins as explanations of natural seasonal phenomena. Such a reductionist interpretation was apparently epitomized by Euhemerus (late 4th century BC), giving the term "euhemerist". Rational Stoic Romans like Cicero and Seneca, who saw the official and civil nature of ritual as paramount, were prepared to explain the myths and festivals of Attis, Adonis and Persephone in terms of natural phenomena. The abduction and return of Persephone, Cicero argued, was symbolic of the planting and growth of crops.

In the late eighteenth century, the naturalist interpretation took on renewed vigor, as freethinkers like Richard Payne Knight sought to explain all religious phenomena in terms of solar activity. Thus the tribulations of Jesus and Osiris were both taken to represent the course of the sun through the day, night, and dawn (Godwin, 1994).

The naturalist hypothesis reached a further apogee in the works of James Frazer and Jane Ellen Harrison, and their fellow Cambridge Ritualists. In their seminal works The Golden Bough and Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion, Frazer and Harrison argued that all myths are only echoes of rituals, and that all rituals have as their primordial purpose the manipulation of natural phenomena by means of sympathetic magic. The rape and return of Persephone, the rending and repair of Osiris, the travails and triumph of Baldur would therefore all be rooted in primitive rites to renew the fertility of withered land and crops.


The internal approach

By the Victorian era, the solar-phallic ideas of Payne Knight along with the less risqué work of scholars like Max Müller had taken strange turns as they made their way into popular discourse. Groups like the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn were using scholarly parallels between Christ, Osiris and other putative solar dying-and-rising gods to build up elaborate systems of mysticism and theosophy.

By the twentieth century, this spiritualized turn to the universal-dying-god hypothesis had made its way into the sunlit uplands of academic discourse. From his studies of alchemy and other spiritual systems, the Swiss psychologist Carl Jung argued that archetypal processes such as death and resurrection were part of the transpersonal symbolism of the Collective Unconscious, and could be utilized in the task of psychological integration. Jung's line of argumentation has been followed, with modifications, by scholars like Karl Kerenyi and Joseph Campbell.

    * Aboriginal mythology
          o Julunggul
          o Wawalag
    * Akkadian mythology
          o Tammuz
          o Ishtar
    * Aztec mythology
          o Xipe Totec
    * Celtic mythology
          o Cernunnos
    * Christian mythology
          o Jesus
    * Dacian mythology
          o Zalmoxis
    * Egyptian mythology
          o Isis
          o Osiris
    * Etruscan mythology
          o Atunis
    * Greek mythology
          o Adonis
          o Cronus
          o Cybele
          o Dionysus
          o Orpheus
          o Persephone
    * Hindu mythology
          o Trimurti
                + Brahma
                + Vishnu
                + Siva
    * Khoikhoi mythology
          o Heitsi
    * Norse mythology
          o Baldur
          o Gullveig
    * Persian mythology
          o Mithras
    * Phrygian mythology
          o Attis
    * Roman mythology
          o Aeneas
          o Bacchus
          o Proserpina
    * Sumerian mythology
          o Damuzi
          o Inanna

'" -- en.wikipedia.org/Life-death-rebirth_deity
