



                enough



In the quiet you may know bombs are not the way to go.
But what are we to do?  It's out of our control.

Or so it may seem, if you don't slow down and think.
We feed the machine with each coin that we plink.

Is there no other choice?  Is there no other way?

How does it happen?  Who gets the pay?
Who are our owners?  Why do we slave?

Many work from abroad to give us cheap things.
Wages are kept low through artificial scarcity.

Through borders and outsourcing they try to get in.
To escape the nightmare that is caused by this sin.

Even the middle class, with our jobs and our debt.
When will we be there?  Why aren't we there yet?

They tell us to wait for an invisible man.
He'll solve all our problems with a swipe of his hand.

The imagery cast is of profit and war,
He'll rid US of terrorists by bombing the poor.

He'll kill all the lefties that won't blind their eye,
To the cannibalistic externalism of the beast from on high.

It's a confusing proposition.  Hasn't it always just been?
Are these conditions required?  Or just a sleight of hand?

So I decided to ask: "What is it we need?"
"How is it kept from us?"  "Why can't we succeed?"

Of course it's water, food, drugs, clothing, shelter at first.
Where do these come from?  Is it not the earth?

It suddenly struck me with surprise and delight.
I realized the answer is right in plain sight!

But the excitement was quenched when soon I learned.
That out in the open, like beautiful fires lies burn.

A teacher once taught me: push the problem to extreme.
To find what is hidden behind the mind's screen.

These shelters we build to hide from the truth.
When that which is there is too scary to look.

So I wondered about those right down on the ground.
Fingering food from steel bowls with flies all around.

The TV asks for some money to help.
"Those less fortunate", "Those who need work."

But what they don't tell us, for few of them know.
Is that this on purpose.  Poverty creates growth.

So to solve these problem would not be so smart.
For to solve any problem is bad for the market.

If you look very long it's easy to see.
Solutions are bad for The Economy.

When dependence is broken, wages go up.
And if the solution is free, your product is not bought.

Our economic system has a flaw, whether planned or mistake.
It allows resource hoarding of the finite.

This creates Progress and Poverty at the same time.
By dividing us on paper with fancy lines.

It causes us to labor for those at the top.
Who only get rich because they were there first.

It somehow just happens.  We become one of the fold.
Toiling for another till we fall down and mold.

Though this spell is ancient, it has not always been.
In the beginning there was enough for all women and men.

For even the books we are supposed to believe.
Tell us life was abundant for Adam and Eve.

But then something happened; they really screwed up.
They ate a fruit forbidden by those on the top.

Who owned this garden with abundance so thick?
Is it a representation of the property owner?

The law says an owner can drive everyone off.
For no reason at all, just because it's his stuff.

That is what happened in the garden so rich.
Driven off of their land, and into big debt.

Hoarding is used to create scarcity.
When applied to the finite it creates power and need.

Henry George found that to fix from the top.
Is a futile endeavor, as it's all so corrupt.

The leaders and their bribers have too much to lose.
They are the land holders.  The want servitude.

So we must become the very owners we hate.
Take hold of the reigns and charge out of the gate!

The law says property is exclusive domain.
But it does not choose the state it is in.

Lock it closed to enforce scarcity.
Or lock it open to create community.

After much research, some worry and thought,
I understand the puddle of freedom of which St IGNUcius taught.

