Related: eat, farm, hunger, need, starv, sust

TheFutureOfFood.com >>The Future of Food has been a key tool in the American and international anti-GMO grassroots activist movements and played widely in the environmental and activist circuits since its release in 2004. The film is widely acknowledged for its role in educating voters and the subsequent success of passing Measure H in Mendocino County, California, one of the first local initiatives in the country to ban the planting of GMO crops. Indicative of its popularity, the Future of Food showed to a sold out audience of 1,500 at the Castro Theatre in San Francisco in 2004, a benefit for Slow Food, where it was introduced by Alice Waters.

FoodIncMovie.com >>Food, Inc. exposes America's industrialized food system and its effect on our environment, health, economy and workers' rights.

But what about Consumers' rights?  We will never have rights, nor any say at all until we mature enough to realize that We, The People that need those products, must own the Physical Sources of those production.

PeoplesSupermarket.org >>Anyone can join The People's Supermarket - and as a member you must work in the shop for a few hours every month. Because the workforce is nearlly all volunteers, staff costs are kept low - which means your shopping can be cheaper. And any profits we make go back into making the food even cheaper still. There are no bonuses for bosses or dividends for shareholders, it's the members who benefit from shopping here.

All good food is organic mass from gifting organisms.

The NWO adds non-organic poisons such as Aspartame, Sucralose, Red40, BHT to most corporate food.

Food-Force.com pretends force is needed to aquire food.  We need freedom, not force.

Water, salt and other minerals and metals are the physical substrate of all organisms.

Hippocrates >>Let food be your medicine and medicine be your food.

==Storage
Every house should have a near zero cost root cellar to store tubers, fruit, gourds, etc. that keep in this way.

Giving food to people in need is a short term patch, a kludge over the real problem in our economy.  What is needed are the tools and genetics needed to bring permanence to the region.  The very facilities our Department of Offense bomb in the name of GOD.

TheHungerSite.com >>It is estimated that one billion people in the world suffer from hunger and malnutrition. That's roughly 100 times as many as those who actually die from these causes each year.

TheHungerSite.com >>About 24,000 people die every day from hunger or hunger-related causes. This is down from 35,000 ten years ago, and 41,000 twenty years ago. Three-fourths of the deaths are children under the age of five.

Starvation is great for a usurist economy.  Humans will work for almost nothing without Swadeshi.  Only a self-serving lefty would want to 'solve' such a profitable thing.  What a disaster it would be for those needing cheap outsourced human resources or hoping illegal immigrants will jump the border and work "under the table".  That is what AmericA is all about: dominating the weak to concentrate wealth.

FIAN.org >>For the Right to Feed Oneself

FoodFirst.org

PeoplesFoodSovereignty.org

ForumFoodSovereignty.org

FOE.co.uk

Hort.Purdue.edu/newcrop/proceedings1999/v4-124.html


http://MSTBrazil.org/?q=foodsovereigntyforum07
"'
[02/23-/02/27] World Forum for Food Sovereignty
Start: February 23, 2007 - 12:00am
Location: Mali

An alliance of social movements has taken the initiative of organising an international meeting on food sovereignty in Mali in February 23-27, 2007.

The principle of food sovereignty was first launched by Via Campesina in 1996 during the FAO World Food Summit which took place in Rome.

Since then this proposal has started to play a key role in the debate on agriculture and alternatives to neo-liberal policies. Before the introduction of the concept of food sovereignty, food security was limited to searching for ways to guarantee sufficient food through trade, at the national or international levels. The principle of food sovereignty puts agricultural producers at the centre of the debate, and supports all peoples in their right to produce their own food independently of market conditions.

The principle of food sovereignty promotes the development of alternative production, distribution and consumption models based on a new logic, far removed from that of neo-liberalism, which for its part gives the central role to markets and liberalisation of trade, and which considers that only international markets can solve the problem of food insecurity.

We consider that a Forum in 2007 will offer a new opportunity to increase the recognition of food sovereignty and to strengthen the actions and campaigns which are carried out for its implementation. During the five days of the Forum the participants will not only be asked to clarify what the right to food sovereignty means and what its implications are for food and agriculture policies in their own regions and countries. They will also consider a global and dynamic strategy to ensure that food sovereignty is considered and applied at both international and local levels.

For more information, visit:
http://www.nyeleni2007.org/?lang=en&lang_fixe=ok
'"
