Related: farm, free, source, Source Freedom, left


----
Re-mix of GNU.org/philosophy/free-sw.html

[image of a Philosophical Gnu]


We maintain this Free Source definition to show clearly what must be true about a particular Object for it to be considered Free.

The Object (the objective, output or goal of use) of any Sources is, at some other time, and in some other way, a Source in the creation of new Objects.  All Objects are Sources, and all Sources are Objects; they are separated by time.

Free Source is a matter of liberty, not price.  To understand the concept, you should think of Free as in free speech, not as in free beer.

Free Source is a matter of the Users' freedom to Use, Modify, Copy and Share any Object of that Source.  More precisely, it refers to four kinds of freedom, for the users of the Objects of the Free Source:

    * 0.) Use: The freedom to use the Object, for any purpose (freedom 0).
    * 1.) Modify: The freedom to study how the Object works, and adapt it to your needs (freedom 1).  Access to the Sources of that Object may be a precondition for this.
    * 2.) Copy: The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor (freedom 2).  Access to the Sources of that Object is a precondition for this.
    * 3.) Share: The freedom to improve the Object, and release your improvements to the public, so that the whole community benefits (freedom 3).  Access to the Sources of that Object may be a precondition for this.

An Object has Free Sources if users have all of these freedoms.  Thus, you should be free to redistribute copies, either with or without modifications, either gratis or charging a fee for distribution, to anyone anywhere.  Being free to do these things means (among other things) that you do not have to ask or pay for permission.

You should also have the freedom to make modifications and use them privately in your own work or play, without even mentioning that they exist.  If you do publish your changes, you should not be required to notify anyone in particular, or in any particular way.

Owners who share the Objects of a Free Source give Users the option to buy ownership toward the investment or maintenance in another Source of that type when growth is needed.  This investment is automatic for any price paid above cost (what would regularly be called profit), as it is a rough measurement of that User's vulnerability.

Most Sources have many potential Objects.  For example, the Objects of a nut tree include:

    Nuts for food and oil.
    Wood for fuel and building.
    Shield from the sun and wind.

Some Objectives are mutually exclusive to others, so that some decisions about how the source is used will hinder or stop the other Objectives.  If you eat a handful of nuts, you cannot also use those same nuts to make a bar of soap.  Composting wood excludes it from being made into paper or heating your home.

Source Owners decide which Objectives to meet by controlling how the Source is used.  When the Source has more than one owner those decisions should consider the divisibility of the Source and be weighted by the % of shares held by each party.

One important way to modify an Object is by merging in available parts and techniques.  If an agreement says you cannot treat the Object in this way, such as if it requires you to be the private owner of anything you add, then the contract is too restrictive to qualify as free.

In order for these freedoms to be real, they must be irrevocable as long as you do nothing wrong; if a portion of the Source owners have the power to revoke access to your divisible portion, without your doing anything to give cause, the Source is not free.

However, certain kinds of rules about the manner of distributing free objects are acceptable, when they don't conflict with the central freedoms. For example, Property Left (very simply stated) is the rule that when redistributing the Object of a Free Source, you cannot add restrictions to deny other people the central freedoms.  This rule does not conflict with the central freedoms; rather it protects them.

You may have paid money to get copies of free objects, or you may have obtained copies at no charge.  But regardless of how you got your copies, you always have the freedom to copy and change those objects, even to sell copies.

``Free Source'' does not mean ``non-commercial''.  A free source must be available for commercial use, commercial development, and commercial distribution.  Commercial development of free objects is no longer unusual; such free commercial objects are very important.

``Free Source'' means ``non-proprietary'', because ``proprietary'' hinders progress by privatizing property for profit instead of public for prosperity.  Freedom may be built when some owners choose to lock some property public.

Ownership of virtual material (such as software, genetics, design) beyond the preservation of privacy and freedom has doubtful merit.  The more common use of ownership over virtual material is to enforce artificial scarcity to collect usury.

When talking about free hardware, it is best to avoid using terms like "give away" or "for free", because those terms imply that the issue is about cost, not freedom.  Some common terms such as piracy embody opinions we hope you won't endorse.
