Related: bill, close, lock, open

Gates locks closed to increase dependence and scarcity.
GPL locks gates open to increase freedom and abundance.

Oct-20-2009: Another example of why Sir Bill Gates should be considered a true terrorist and an enemy of all humanity: OpenDotDotDot.BlogSpot.com/2009/10/gates-gives-300-million-but-with-catch.html

GATES TRIPS AIDS

Sir Billy (he's a knight you know) understands property rights and knows why the GPL is bad for the economy, but wants to mislead us into believing artificial scarcity is the only means of incentive.  His Open Letter to Hobbyists shows the same view.


"'There are some new modern-day sort of communists who want to get rid of the incentive for musicians and moviemakers and software makers under various guises. They don't think that those incentives should exist.'" -- news.com.com/Gates+taking+a+seat+in+your+den/2008-1041_3-5514121.html


who.int/mediacentre/events/2005/wha58/gates/en


"'BILL GATES: KILLING AFRICANS FOR PROFIT AND P.R. -- Mr. Bush's Bogus AIDS Offer
Greg Palast
Monday, July 14, 2003
E-Mail Article
Printer Friendly Version


Stephanie, let me let you in on a little secret about Bill and Melinda Gates so-called "Foundation."  Gate's demi-trillionaire status is based on a nasty little monopoly-protecting trade treaty called "TRIPS" - the Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights rules of the World Trade Organization.  TRIPS gives Gates a hammerlock on computer operating systems worldwide, legally granting him the kind of monopoly the Robber Barons of yore could only dream of.  But TRIPS, the rule which helps Gates rule, also bars African governments from buying AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis medicine at cheap market prices.


Example: in June 2000, at the urging of Big Pharma, Bill Clinton threatened trade sanctions against Argentina for that nation's daring to offer low-cost drugs to Southern Africa.


Gates knows darn well that "intellectual property rights" laws such as TRIPS - which keep him and Melinda richer than Saddam and the Mafia combined - are under attack by Nelson Mandela and front-line doctors trying to get cut-rate drugs to the 23 million Africans sick with the AIDS virus.  Gate's brilliant and self-serving solution:  he's spending an itsy-bitsy part of his monopoly profits (the $6 billion spent by Gates' foundation is less than 2% of his net worth) to buy some drugs for a fraction of the dying.  The bully billionaire's "philanthropic" organization is currently working paw-in-claw with the big pharmaceutical companies in support of the blockade on cheap drug shipments.



Gates' game is given away by the fact that his Foundation has invested $200 million in the very drug companies stopping the shipment of low-cost AIDS drugs to Africa.


Gates says his plan is to reach one million people with medicine by the end of the decade.  Another way to read it:  he's locking in a trade system that will effectively block the delivery of medicine to over 20 million.



The computer magnate's scheme has a powerful ally. "The president could have been reading from a script prepared by Mr. Gates," enthuses the Times' cub reporter, referring to Mr. Bush's AIDS plan offered up this week to skeptical Africans.  The US press does not understand why Africans don't jump for Bush's generous handout.  None note that the money held out to the continent's desperate nations has strings attached or, more accurately, chains and manacles.  The billions offered are mostly loans at full interest which may be used only to buy patent drugs from US companies at a price several times that available from other nations.  What Africans want, an end to the devastating tyranny of TRIPS and other trade rules, is dismissed by the Liberator of Baghdad.



We are all serfs on Microsoft's and Big Pharma's 'intellectual property.'  If Gates' fake philanthropy eviscerates the movement to free Africans from the tyranny of TRIPS, then Bill and Melinda's donations could have the effect of killing more Africans than then even their PR agents claim they have saved.  And for our own Republic, we can only hope that when the bully-boy billionaire injects his next wad of loot into the Bush political campaign, he uses a condom.
'" -- www.gregpalast.com/detail.cfm?artid=232&row=0
