Related: control, incorporate, manage, policy

Governance: the policy or constitution for a group of owners.
Governance: The workers (politicians) hired to interpret and enforce it.

Owners control governments, but property is not being distributed, so power is concentrated.

A user controlled government would maximize abundance, 

An operating system shows code is law by governing resource allocation and scheduling.

Governments are originally composed of humans, and eventually run by corporations.

PUPPETGOV.org

Metagovernment.org >>Metagovernment invites all people to participate in governance as much or as little as they wish.  It is the system which will run a series of governments using a scored, versioned website as the medium for legislation and bureaucracy under the principle of open source governance.  This implementation is similar to the concept of "wiki government," but with a sophisticated scoring system to avoid potential downfalls of a completely open editable system.

Ropecan.BlogSpot.com >>Project Ropecan is a project to create a computer video game in which participants interact according to the values and institutions of the economic model of Michael Albert's and Robin Hahnel's Parecon ("participatory economics").

EfficaSync.BlogSpot.com >>Programming a Deliberative Direct-Democracy.  A Method of Open-Source Self-Governance.

GovTrack.us >>GovTrack follows the status of federal legislation and the activities of your senators and representatives.


"'The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to -- for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well--is still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it. The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual.'" -- Henry David Thoreau, Civil Disobedience


"'To be GOVERNED is to be watched, inspected, spied upon, directed, law-driven, numbered, regulated, enrolled, indoctrinated, preached at, controlled, checked, estimated, valued, censured, commanded, by creatures who have neither the right nor the wisdom nor the virtue to do so.

    To be GOVERNED is to be at every operation, at every transaction noted, registered, counted, taxed, stamped, measured, numbered, assesed, licensed, authorized, admonished, prevented, forbidden, reformed, corrected, punished. It is, under pretext of public utility, and in the name of the general interest, to be placed under contribution, drilled, fleeced, exploited, monopolized, extorted from, squeezed, hoaxed, robbed then, at the slightest resistance, the first word of complaint, to be repressed, fined, vilified, harrased, hunted down, abused, clubbed, disarmed, bound, choked, imprisoned, judged, condemned, shot, deported, sacrificed, sold, betrayed; and to crown all, mocked, ridiculed, derided, outraged, dishonored.

    That is government; that is its justice, that is its morality.'" -- Pierre J. Proudhon, General Idea of the Revolution in the 19th Century.

PublicEye.org
PoliticalGraveYard.com
