Related: animate, organism

Ps-i.sf.net >>Ps-i is an environment for running agent-based simulations. It is cross-platform, with binaries available for Win32.

SpiderLand.org >>breve is a free, open-source software package which makes it easy to build 3D simulations of multi-agent systems and artificial life.

ALife.org >>Welcome to the site of the International Society of Artificial Life (ISAL).

AIPlanet.sf.net >>AI.Planet is a virtual world for artificial intelligence.  The environment has water, land, suns, moons, and atmosphere.  Plants, animals, fish, and insects can be added to create a dynamic ecosystem.  Clouds, rain, wind, lightning, rivers, and icebergs naturally arise from the sun and other influences.  You can explore your planet from outer space, by walking around, by tracking creatures, or by controlling a robot that interacts with objects.  Artificial Planet is an OpenSource project built with GLScene.

OpenLife.cc

WaynesWord.Palomar.edu/trfeb98.htm
"'Living organisms are subdivided into 5 major kingdoms, including the Monera, the Protista (Protoctista), the Fungi, the Plantae, and the Animalia. Each kingdom is further subdivided into separate phyla or divisions. Generally "animals" are subdivided into phyla, while "plants" are subdivided into divisions. These subdivisions are analogous to subdirectories or folders on your hard drive. The basic characteristics of each kingdom and approximate number of species are summarized in the following table:

Prokaryotic Cells Without Nuclei And Membrane-Bound Organelles
1. Kingdom Monera [10,000 species]: Unicellular and colonial--including the true bacteria (eubacteria) and cyanobacteria (blue-green algae).
Eukaryotic Cells With Nuclei And Membrane-Bound Organelles:
2. Kingdom Protista (Protoctista) [250,000 species]: Unicellular protozoans and unicellular & multicellular (macroscopic) algae with 9 + 2 cilia and flagella (called undulipodia). 3. Kingdom Fungi [100,000 species]: Haploid and dikaryotic (binucleate) cells, multicellular, generally heterotrophic, without cilia and eukaryotic (9 + 2) flagella (undulipodia). 4. Kingdom Plantae [250,000 species]: Haplo-diploid life cycles, mostly autotrophic, retaining embryo within female sex organ on parent plant. 5. Kingdom Animalia [1,000,000 species]: Multicellular animals, without cell walls and without photosynthetic pigments, forming diploid blastula.

1. The five-kingdom system of classification for living organisms, including the prokaryotic Monera and the eukaryotic Protista, Fungi, Plantae and Animalia is complicated by the discovery of archaebacteria. The prokaryotic Monera include three major divisions: The regular bacteria or eubacteria; the cyanobacteria (also called blue-green algae); and the archaebacteria. Lipids of archaebacterial cell membranes differ considerably from those of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, as do the composition of their cell walls and the sequence of their ribosomal RNA subunits. In addition, recent studies have shown that archaebacterial RNA polymerases resemble the eukaryotic enzymes, not the eubacterial RNA polymerase.

Archaebacteria also have introns in some genes, an advanced eukaryotic characteristic that was previously unknown among prokaryotes. In eukaryotic cells, the initial messenger RNA (M-RNA) transcribed from the DNA (gene) is modified (shortened) before it leaves the nucleus. Sections of the M-RNA strand called introns are removed, and the remaining portions called exons are spliced together to form a shortened (edited) strand of mature M-RNA that leaves the nucleus and travels to the ribosome for translation into protein. This process is known as "gene editing." Some authorities hypothesize that eukaryotic organisms may have evolved from ancient archaebacteria (archae = ancient) rather than from the common and cosmopolitan eubacteria. The archaebacteria could have flourished more than 3 billion years ago under conditions previously thought to be uninhabitable to all known life forms.'"
