Related: Mormon, Catholic, OTO, Egypt, Phonecian, Rite of the Rose Cross of Gold, Roscrucian, Hermetic, Knights of Malta, Sovereign Military Order of Malta (SMOM), Thot

A mason builds with brick and mortar.  The compass and square are the circle (cycle) and measure (mass).

Masonic aprons, handshakes, passphrases, etc. are similar to the Mormon Temple ceremonies.  Joseph Smith Jr. became a Mason after founding of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.

Video.Google.com/videoplay?docid=2748614967389038944 >>The Light Behind Masonry - Bill Schnoebe


"'Freemasonry ... is a science which is engaged in the search after Divine Truth, and which employs symbolism as its method of instruction'". -- Albert G. Mackey, Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, 1873

"'The term "Mason"  is derived from PHREE MESSEN,  which is  an Egyptian term meaning "Children of Light."  In the parlance of Masonry,  God is  spoken  of as the Grand Architect.  ARCHE is a greek  word  which  means "Primordial substance."  TEKTON is  the  Greek name for builder.  It is said that Joseph, the father of Jesus,  was a "CARPENTER,"  but the Greek word is TEKTON--builder.   It  is also said that Jesus was a  "tekton,"  a  builder. Thus every true mystic Freemason is a child of light according to the divine pattern  given him by our Father in Heaven.   To this end he  dedicates  his whole heart,  soul,  and mind.   It is, or should be,  his aspiration to  be "greatest  in the kingdom of God,"  and therefore he must be THE SERVANT  OF ALL.

   The next point which calls for notice is the location of the temple  with respect to the cardinal points,  and we find that it was laid directly  east and  west.   Thus we see that the path of spiritual progress is the same  as the star of empire;  it travels from east to west.   The aspirant entered at the  eastern gate and pursued the path by way of the Altar of  Burnt  Offerings,  the Brazen Laver,  and the Holy Place to the westernmost part of  the Tabernacle,  where the Ark,  the greatest symbol of all,  was located in the Holy of Holies.   As the wise men of the East followed the Christ star westward to Bethlehem, so does the spiritual center of the civilized world shift farther  and farther westward,  until today the crest of the spiritual  wave which started in China on the western shores of the Pacific has now  reached the eastern shores of the same ocean, where it is gathering strength to leap once more in its cyclic journey across the waste of waters, to recommence in a far future a new cyclic journey around the earth.

   The ambulant nature of this Tabernacle  in the Wilderness is therefore an excellent  symbolical  representation of the fact that man is  migratory  in his nature, an eternal pilgrim, ever passing from the shores of time to eternity and back again.   As a planet revolves in its cyclic journey around the primary sun, so man, the little world or microcosm, travels in cyclic circle dance around God, who is the source and goal of all.

   The great care and attention to detail regarding the construction of  the Tabernacle in the Wilderness shows that something far more exalted than what struck the eye of sense was intended in its construction.  Under its earthly and material show there was designed a representation of things heavenly and spiritual  such as should be full of instruction to the candidate  for  Initiation and should not this reflection excite us to seek an intimate and familiar  acquaintance with this ancient sanctuary?   Surely it becomes us  to consider all parts of its plan with serious, careful, and reverential attention,  remembering at every step the heavenly origin of it all,  and  humbly endeavoring to penetrate through the shadows of its earthly service into the sublime  and glorious realities which according to the wisdom of the  spirit it proposes for our solemn contemplation.

   In  order  that we may gain a proper conception of this sacred  place  we must consider the Tabernacle itself,  its furniture and its court.   The illustration opposite page 33 may assist the student to form a better  conception of the arrangement within.

    THE ATLANTEAN MYSTERY TEMPLE

                THE COURT OF THE TABERNACLE

   This  was an enclosure which surrounded the Tabernacle.   Its length  was twice its width, and the ate was at the east end.  This gate was enclosed by a curtain of blue,  scarlet, and purple fine twined linen,  and these colors show  us  at once the status of this Tabernacle in the Wilderness.   We  are taught in the sublime gospel of John that "God is Light," and no description or  similitude could convey a better conception or one more enlightening  to the spiritual mind than these words.   When we consider that even the greatest  of modern telescopes have failed to find the borders of  light,  though they penetrate space for millions and millions of miles,  it gives us a weak but comprehensive idea of the infinitude of God.

   We know that this light,  which is God,  is refracted into three  primary colors by the atmosphere surrounding our earth, viz., blue, yellow, and red; and it is a fact well known to every occultist that the ray of the Father is blue,  while that of the Son is yellow,  and the color of the Holy  Spirit's ray is red.  Only the strongest and most spiritual ray can hope to penetrate to the seat of consciousness of the life wave embodied in our mineral  kingdom, and therefore we find about the mountain ranges the blue ray of the Father  reflected  back from the barren hillsides and hanging as a  haze  over canyons and gulches.   The yellow ray of the Son mixed with the blue of  the Father gives life and vitality to the plant world,  which therefore reflects back  a  green color, for it is incapable of keeping the ray WITHIN.  But in the  animal  kingdom,  to which unregenerate man belongs  anatomically,  the three rays are absorbed,  and that of the Holy Spirit gives the red color to his flesh and blood.   The mixture of the blue and the red is evident in the purple blood,  poisoned because sinful.  But the yellow is never evident until it manifests as a soul body, the golden "WEDDING garment"  of the mystic Bride of the mystic Christ evolved from within.

   Thus the colors on the veils of the Temple,  both at the gate and at  the entrance  of the Tabernacle,  showed that this structure was designed for  a period  previous  to the time of Christ,  for it had only the blue  and  the scarlet  colors of the Father and the Holy Spirit together with  their  mixture,  purple.   But white is the synthesis of all colors, and therefore the yellow Christ ray was hidden in that part of the veil until in the  fullness of time Christ should appear to emancipate us from the ordinances that bind, and initiate us into the full liberty of Sons of God,  Sons of Light,  Children of Light, Phree Messen or Mystic Masons.'" -- BibleProbe.com/freemasonry.htm


"'The lodge as a room or hall is an oblong square, which is a half of a perfect square, and which is inside or outside the lower half of a circle. Each lodge meets in the same room, alike furnished, but the lodge working in the Apprentice degree is styled the Ground Floor, the lodge working the Fellow Craft degree is called the Middle Chamber, and the lodge working the Master degree is called the Sanctum Sanctorum, all in King Solomon's Temple.'" -- Harold Waldwin Percival, Masonry and Its Symbols in the Light of 'Thinking and Destiny'


Masonic ritual"'
Q. Where were you made a Mason?
A. In the body of a Lodge, just, perfect and regular.
Q. And when?
A. When the sun was at its meridian.
Q. As in this country Freemasons' Lodges are usually held and candidates initiated at night, how do you reconcile that which at first sight appears a paradox?
A. The sun being a fixed body and the earth continually revolving about the same on its own axis and Freemasonry being a universal science, diffused throughout the hole of the inhabited globe, it necessarily follows that the sun must always be at its meridian with respect to Freemasonry.'"

"'Freemasons today claim always to meet symbolically at noon on the basis that Freemasonry is a worldwide organisation and therefore 'the sun is always at its meridian with respect to Freemasonry'. Masonic reference to God as 'the most high' is therefore a description of Re, the sun god in his ultimate position, the zenith of the heavens at noon.'" -- Christopher Knight & Robert Lomas, The Hiram Key: Pharaohs, Freemasons and the Discovery of the Secret Scrolls of Jesus  [Mystae.com/restricted/streams/masons/mrituals.html]

"'One of the most hidden secrets involves the so-called fall of Angels.  Satan and his rebellious host will thus prove to have become the direct Saviours and Creators of divine man.  Thus Satan, once he ceases to be viewed in the superstitious spirit of the church, grows into the grandiose image.  It is Satan who is the God of our planet and the only God.  Satan (or Lucifer) represents the Centrifugal Energy of the Universe, this ever-living symbol of self-sacrifice for the intellectual independence of humanity.'" -- Sister H.P. Blavatsky "The Secret Doctrine"


Ma: Mother
Son: Father, Sun

SchillerInstitute.org
FreeMasonryWatch.org
RRCG.org
OTO93.com
ConstructingTheUniverse.com
AskAFreemason.org
