                Aggressive Peace


Peace won't come
While we idle by

But how can we act?
What should we buy?

We sense this transaction
Somehow feeds the machine.

There's trouble at the teller.
But just what does that mean?

We must make an impact, but how shall we strike?
First replace what we buy so we then can boycott.

Ghandi and Tilak said peace comes through Swadeshi.
Swadeshi is "local permanence".  It's true economy.

But "The Economy" of Banks, Wall Street and money,
Is another thing entirely; using debt and slavery.

So what is real wealth?  What are our goals?
Who's driving this boat?  Where are we going?

It turns out the owners make all the decisions.
They say what stays or goes, even who gets to keep living.

So we must own what we need or it _will be_ used against us.
But even if we own it, what's to stop new corruption?...

One problem is that owners have too much control.
They are allowed to lock you out from achieving your goals.

This is valuable to them, because then you will buy.
And work for almost nothing since there is no other way.

Land ownership has always been used against the poor.
Scraping the renters off if they ever progress too far.

Our Bechtel just purchased water rights in Iraq.
Monsanto funded the acceptance of CPA ORDER 81.

What gives them the right to buy and sell these needs?
Who owns the lives of those brave defenders of country?

This kind of tactic is how kingdoms are made.
Even though we could easily fulfill every need.

This island is for all of us; no one should take too much.
Or there isn't enough for the rest of the folk.

And that's just one side of it; that's just the poor.
The other side is corporatism and how it creates war.

We'll simply just have to buy it all back,
And lock some of it open to those who will work.

...

Permaculture is not agriculture, it's a long term approach.
Creating wealth by taking advantage of that under our nose.

Promote gifting organisms on a small patch of soil.
Let them take root and seed.  Get intimate with your world.

As we learn more about how the earth lives,
We reclaim the power that's been taken from our hands.

In "from our hands" I mean how our labor is stolen.
By the those at the top who understand the ancient system.

We'll take over our environment with eggs, spores and seeds.
A biological attack we'll make these creatures our weeds!

Buy varieties that propogate all on their own.
Soon gifts will be growing down every road.

Grapevines and Hops, Strawberries and Almonds
Pecans, Walnuts, Pears and Chesnuts

Flax and Anise, Cumin, Jojoba
Blueberries, Blackberries, Raspberries and Cotton

Wheat and Oats, Barley and corn
Angelica, Basil, Caraway, Peppercorn

Endive, Purslane, Cardomom, Dill
Morel, Reshi, Shitake, and 'button' mushrooms

That's a glimpse at only few,
And that's just the plants, there are animals too.

Animals should be used in reverence and care
We'll give them a home and reap the rewards.

Raw material from creatures is an important first step,
Under drastic conditions, it is all we must have.

But we want more than that, so let's own some machines.
And lock them open too, to protect the working.

Sow Flax, and harvest it, rett the fiber,
Spin thread, weave cloth and sew clothes.

...

These things already are done, but mostly slaves.
They are what we need, but they feed the machine.

But what if the worker could be protected from that?
What if she could receive all that was charged for the act?

What if material were available at cost?
What if they grew at every doorstep?

Here's an idea, it's built on Copyleft:
Buy land and equipment then rent it at cost.

Tools in the cheap for the aritisan to play.
The rent even lower after the initial cost twice is paid.

When a house is built now, what do the workers receive?
Manuel and Tim, Poco and Steve.

They get a little, but who gets the rest?
This difference is massive when it's finally paid off.

What if we were working together?
What if we wanted everyone succeed?

With mirrors to concentrate the glory of the sun,
We work steel, blow glass, spin pottery, cook food.

We'll heat our water, we'll run our cars!
But we must own the designs or they will just cost too much.

Of course the design is not all, we also must build

...

Cooperation is difficult without a community center.
We must collaborate and specialize to make us all winners.

Henry George wanted to tax land hoarding,
But he started at the top, not realizing the pollution.

Free Software replaces when access is denied.
For manoralists like Microsoft it is economic genocide.

Richard Stallman exposed the crack in capitalism.
That lets corporations hold solutions from us.

Let's combine these ideas by purchasing land, tools and organisms;
Then LOCKing them OPEN with a contract that promotes a Creative Commons.

...

Cloth and lumber, sponges and scrubbers.
Baskets and brooms, medicine and food.

Soaps and lotions, herbs and potions.

We can grow all we need.
Begin right at your feet.

Don't pass that plant by
Without asking just why.

Why would you buy when it can be almost free?
It's not set up that way, but it really could be.

"So why is not fixed?" some have asked me.
"It cannot be fixed, or it would already be."

But that's not the case, there is reason to keep
Solutions at bay, and poverty in place.
