Pirates lock closed to increase scarcity.
Then make us believe abundance is piracy!

Taxing production instead of power.
The NWO swells from burning towers.

Maximum use of machines, medicines and plants,
Is a threat to scarcity, and so is called bad.

These pirates of nature and thought hoard sources away.
They lock it closed and claim shortage to collect usury.

Access is halted and solutions withheld,
For without these restraints the market would fail!

If we could access our land, buildings, and tools at cost,
(Except when paying to grow when there isn't enough),

And if price above cost were understood as a plea,
Being treated as user investment instead of usury,

Then all qualified artisans, no matter their lot,
Could become sovereign, wealthy, independent, Swaraj!

They say that "Free content threatens to the model".
"GPL destroys MicroSCOft"; "Creative Commons kills big labels".

But what's wrong with the big-box?  How is local better?
It's more than just size, it's accumulation at every level.

If we scale it all down to see how it works...
What if there were only 10 humans on earth?

Wealth through abundance is the truth and the light.
Property left all resources.  For victory Cooporate!

When owners become stewards of Capital for their own needs,
While treating profit as an investment from anyone who pays,

Then the workers will win, but on the *consuming* side.
For we can let prices reach cost and work be minimized.

Our cities are barren even though they are green.
There is no production, only sterile scenery.

We must co-own sources to escape our fragile plight.
Plant colorful spices, nuts and fruit for true might.

The worker as consumer is protected this way.
Otherwise the usurist will pirate ignorantly.


....
Mixing "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" with WorkingTV.com/vandana.html
  Lock closed manufacturing, ideas, techniques, genetics.
  Feigned agriculture ignorance.
....

TrackBalls.sf.net/pirate.shtml
Microsoft.com/piracy
