Religion is the worship of GOD, but which?  Mason, Mormon, Moon, or the forgotten SUN?

Our world leaders worship a 40' owl - some say it is Molech - at the Cremation of Care.

I wouldn't mind religion so much if it weren't so divisive, domineering and eventually dangerous.  Many religious leaders are actually unaware of this, as they have become part of the psychological machinery.  Autohypnosis and mob mentality gives much room for exploitation.

----
Kurt Godel's first "incompleteness theorem" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6del%27s_incompleteness_theorems appears to require any system to be either inconsistent or incomplete.

So, (if my interpretation is correct), religion can be EITHER consistent (does not contradict itself), or it can be complete (can be proven from data wholly from within itself), but it can't be simultaneously both.

Since most adherents would want to claim their religion doesn't contradict itself, then that religion must be incomplete, and therefore would require proof OUTSIDE of itself to prove or disprove it's validity.

Notice Godel's theorem can't be used to prove or disprove the validity of the system itself, it is only used to prove or disprove the *decidability* of that system. In other words, if an adherent claims his system (religion) is consistent, but is only willing to consider data (scripture) from within that system, then the system cannot be decided - it can be neither proven nor disproven until external information (such as physical evidence) is presented.
----

Monotheism is invalid because prayer produces conflicting results across differing religions.

For example, persons of any of the Christian faiths believes (is adamant) that Jesus is the savior of the world.  Persons of the Jewish faith believe he is not.  yet after millions of man-hours of prayer throughout history their god(s) never tell either of them there is a problem with their chosen path.

Christians 'know' jesus is the christ, and Jews 'know' he isn't.  in both cases the information comes from god.  Both sides claim this imaginary man (in these cases it is male) is perfect.

Conclusion: either god is imaginary or the game is broken.

Holy Poly!  Some believe complexity proves the existience of god.


----
Religion is not just the opiate of the masses.  It can be used with propaganda to extort allegience to dastardly causes.  Holding eternal salvation over their head can be more powerful than threatening their immediate life.

Religion is not confined to believing an invisible man, powerful puffs of smoke, magic goats etc.  Patriotism is another expression of this desire to follow.

----
Nov 26, 02:
Tonight I watched a (christian) televangelist scream about the strength and
glory that will soon come to those that fight valiantly against evil in these
latter days.  It turns my stomach, but I must watch.  I must find out how
he is able to connect to people.  I must learn how psychology and sociology
are used to drive the fanaticism and fury.

Nov 26, 02:
An Islamic fatwa has been decreed against Isioma Daniel, whose article in the
This Day newspaper suggested that if the prophet Mohammed were alive today,
he would have wanted to marry one of the Miss World contestants.

"'What we are saying is that the holy Koran has clearly stated that whoever insults the Prophet of Islam, Mohammed, should be killed.'"

Yet another reason to educate people out of divisive religions[1]. especially those with elaborate afterlife promises[2].

[1] Exclusionary as in phrases such as "The One and Only True Church" [mormonism], and also as in claims of fitness to enter heaven based on arbitrary rules (repeat strange mantras [catholisism], must know handshakes, passwords etc. [masonic]).

[2] Societies with more elaborate afterlifes promote more violent protection of those beliefs.


"'
"Well, is he [bin Laden] the enemy? Next slide. Or is this man [Saddam] the enemy? The enemy is none of these people I have showed you here. The enemy is a spiritual enemy. He's called the principality of darkness. The enemy is a guy called Satan."
       Why are terrorists out to destroy the United States? Boykin said: "They're after us because we're a Christian nation."
'" --  Lt. Gen. William 'Jerry' Boykin at http://MSNBC.com/news/980764.asp?cp1=1


The Pharmacratic-Inquisition.com seems too focused on drugs alone.  I agree with some of what they say, especially with regards to sun worship, but think the organic message is about all living things, and specifically about the organisms we rely on.  The gifting creatures of our garden.  Permaculture on our land.

OccultMysterySchool.com shows a picture from "Canterbury Psalter, Canterbury, England c. 1147 CE" which shows not only medicinal plants, but represents all useful beasts and plants = gifting organisms.



exmormon.org
bookofabraham.info  video or carm.net/lds/ldspapyri.htm  text concerning one of joe's many lies.
lds-mormon.com  info on the lds church
pfo.org/bomchllg.htm  challenging the book of mormon
irr.org/mit/bhrobert.html  a mormon leader writes about his problems with the "book of mormon"
geocities.com/masonicmoroni/Articles.htm  how free-masonry influenced joe's fabrications

rickross.com
DomainOfMan.com
Saragrahi.org
