Enslave permaculture through freedom instead of humans through usury.


                The Ancient Magic of Slavery


First you take their food, and then you take their land
While making sure they believe it's all in the master plan.

We must all just press on for the love of the invisible man
Who wants you to move the stones across the burning sand.

To build the pyramids that really help no one
While the unemployed starve and beg to be shackled again.

So even those employed need barely be paid
Since without such a thing there seems no other way

To get the food and drugs, soap, clothing and shelter you need.
See, you must work for money.  You must work for me.

Since I own the land and tools, and access to both,
You must grovel and fight.  Hope, hope and hope

That I am nice enough to even keep you employed
While you pad my fat pockets with your blood and your toil.

If you had been here first you might also have thought
That to lock the land closed is to create those with naught.

While to do such a thing is surely not humane,
To do such a thing is the source of much gain.

So we make an economy where the money flows up
And a populous so deprived they finally scream "enough!".

For when they have nothing, they also have nothing to lose
So they just might rise up to take it out on me and on you

By making a final statement with their very lives
Through suicide destruction of our financial hives

That keep them enslaved through trickery and deceit
And prices low, low, low, isn't it such a treat?

I'll pay you just enough to keep you from taking my life
And teach you:  Be righteous, work hard, learn to love the strife.

Otherwise what would you have us do?
More hand outs, more welfare, and what then free food?

Why do you blue collars continue whine?
When it comes time to work you call it a grind.

There's never enough, and never will there be.
It's kept artificially scarce for the economy!

Cooporatism is dangerous.  It's terrible plan.
It will destroy all the business.  It's from undergound man!

Otherwise the cost of wages - they will go through the roof
As some will stay home crafting their own plans, or even just goof.

Swaraj is the desire of those that won't bow.
Swadeshi is the stance that stops the kowtow.

Personal sovereignty is an attack on the concentration of wealth.
Autarchy would remove our abundant low-wages work.

If a renter had guaranteed access to land,
Soon she would have power to make a stand.

What if the the renters could build on their own?
They could laugh in your face and choose to stay home.

We musn't have that.  We need a world order.
An order not new.  Much older than me or you.






"'The UN Working Group on Contemporary Forms of Slavery recognizes that some 20 million people are still held in debt bondage around the world. However, there continues to be considerable controversy regarding the number of people actually enslaved as bonded laborers. In India, estimates vary between Human Rights Watch's appraisal in 1999 of 40 million bonded laborers and the 280,340 that were identified by the Indian government as of March 1999. Similarly, in Pakistan, the Bonded Labour Liberation Front (an NGO), estimated in a submission to the UN that there were 20 million bonded laborers in Pakistan. A representative of the government of Pakistan recently stated that the total number of bonded laborers was between 5,000 and 7,000 (Anti-Slavery Submissions to the UN Commission on Human Rights).

The UN Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery, 1956, defines debt bondage as "the status or condition arising from a pledge by a debtor of his personal services or of those of a person under his control as security for a debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied towards the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined."  Bonded laborers work like slaves, often not knowing when their debt will finally be considered paid. Normally, the bonded laborer's children inherit the debt.'" -- www.brandeis.edu/departments/nejs/fse/Pages/bondedlabor.html


CleanClothes.org/companies/disney.htm
DeTaxCanada.org
ATGPress.com/kifap/indexjm.htm
UHUH.com/action/timeline/timeline6.htm
New-Enlightenment.com/new_slavery.htm