Terrorists hate freedom cuz it's bad for the market.

We must return to a reverence for the water, mushrooms, plants and animals needed for life instead of attacking the brothers and sisters in our species.

Insurgents and suicide bombers are not terrorists.  They are defending their homeland from invading vassals.  The military are somewhat innocent/ignorant and "Just doing my job".

We (The US backed by the UN) have starved and bombed Iraq for 20 years.  Then we began a massive arial bombing campaign on Baghdad because it was (weakly) claimed Saddam still held some of the weapons we sold to him.  The bumbling Rumsfeld and Prince of Darkness couldn't even get anything planted.  No psyop at all.  Just "oh, yeah, well, uh, no. nope, no weapons really...".  That's all.  No problem.  Whatever.  What a bunch of pathetic thieves.  And the sheeple just gobble it up.  Turn on the TV.  Take your pill.  Could we be more daft?

We (the unwitting terrorists) have become subtly cannibalistic - as I think civilizations tend when the rulers dupe us out of our own wealth.


"'Terrorism is the best political weapon for nothing drives people harder than a fear of sudden death.'" -- Adolf Hitler


"'Of all the enemies to public liberty, war is, perhaps, the most to be dreaded because it comprises and develops the germ of every other. War is the parent of armies; from these proceed debts and taxes. And armies, and debts, and taxes are the known instruments for bringing the many under the domination of the few. In war, too, the discretionary power of the Executive is extended. Its influence in dealing out offices, honors, and emoluments is multiplied; and all the means of seducing the minds, are added to those of subduing the force of the people. The same malignant aspect in republicanism may be traced in the inequality of fortunes, and the opportunities of fraud, growing out of a state of war...and in the degeneracy of manners and morals, engendered by both. No nation could preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare.'" -- James Madison, April 20, 1795


"'Why of course the people don't want war... But after all it is the leaders of the country who determine the policy, and it is always a simple matter to drag the people along, whether it is a democracy, or a fascist dictatorship, or a parliament, or a communist dictatorship... Voice or no voice, the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is to tell them they are being attacked, and denounce the pacifists for lack of patriotism and exposing the country to danger.'" -- Hermann Goering during the Nuremberg Trials.


"'This is truly an extraordinary time in American history. A dozen men and one woman are making very risky consequential decisions sealed off from much muted dissent inside the Pentagon, the State Department, the CIA and other agencies that have warned the President and his small band of ideological cohorts to think more deeply before they leap. They are launching our nation into winning a war which generates later battles that may not be winnable - at least not without great economic and human costs to our country.'"-- Ralph Nader www.organicconsumers.org/corp/nader032403.cfm


"'It's not the politicians but their actions I despise.'" -- The Beastie Boys, "In a World Gone Mad".


"'The current terrorists occupying the White House plotted their 911 attack in the paper Rebuilding America's Defenses.

This is not a game.  We are living in strange times.  I care nothing about partisan politics.  They change the outcome very little.  Money talks.  The defense, oil, pharmecutical, automobile and entertainment industries have so much influence in so many countries - including our own - that we, the American people have lost control.  Corporations routinely pass legislation - often with parts written by the lobbying group.

Now a handful of people are using the most powerful military in the world to attack one of the weakest countries.  For no reason.  Claiming it is to liberate the people.  Bombs for freedom!  What if someone decided America is being led by a barbaric dictator.  What if they were 1,000,000 times more powerful than us (as we are to Iraq).'" -- ?
