Related: religion, SUN, thought

                  The Emerald Tablet
                by Hermes Trismegistus

                        As Above,
                        So Below.

/-----------------The Emerald Tablet--------------------\
|           Truth From Thoth The Atlantean:             |
|                                                       |
|Sun above, and soil, water, genetics below create life.|
|Combining mass to grow, dividing mass to rot.          |
|Sun, Moon, Stars cycle seasons of change.              |
|Wind and sex carry pollen, spore, sperm, seed.         |
|Crushing solids, building from that which is scattered.|
|These are the operations of the sun.                   |
\-------------------------------------------------------/

--

    Thoth's EMERALD TABLET:
. Most reverent truth:
. Salvation through land, sun, water, genes, tools.
. Begin by access to land, water, spore, seed, egg.
. Tools help divide and combine.
. Time and processes transform matter in stages.
. Sun and Moon cycle seasons, growth, sex, death, rot.
. Wind and bird carry spore and seed to Earth womb.
. Study the physical details of design and implementation.
. This is the true light and knowledge of the world.

--

Tabula Smaragdina

Verum, sine Mendacio, certum et verissimum:

Quod est Inferius est sicut quod est Superius, et quod est Superius est sicut quod est Inferius, ad perpetranda Miracula Rei Unius. Et sicut res omnes fuerunt ab Uno, meditatione unius, sic Omnes Res natae ab hac una Re, adaptatione.

Pater eius est Sol. Mater eius est Luna. Portavit illud Ventus in Ventre suo. Nutrix eius Terra est. Pater omnis Telesmi totius Mundi est hic. Virtus eius integra est si versa fuerit in Terram. Separabis Terram ab Igne, subtile ab spisso, suaviter, magno cum ingenio.

Ascendit a Terra in Coelum, iterumque descendit in Terram, et recipit Vim superiorum et inferiorum. Sic habebis Gloriam totius Mundi. Ideo fugiet a te omnis Obscuritas. Haec est totius Fortitudinis Fortitudo fortis, quia vincet Omnem rem subtilem, Omnemque Solidam penetrabit.

Sic Mundus creatus est. Hinc erunt Adaptationes Mirabiles, quarum Modus est hic. Itaque vocatus sum Hermes Trismegistus, habens tres partes Philosophiae totius Mundi.

Completum est quod dixi de Operatione Solis.

--

The Emerald Tablet

 Truly, without Deceit, certainly and absolutely:

 That which is Below corresponds to that which is Above, and that which is Above corresponds to that which is Below, in the accomplishment of the Miracle of One Thing. And just as all things have come from One, through the Mediation of One, so all things follow from this One Thing in the same way.

 Its Father is the Sun. Its Mother is the Moon. The Wind has carried it in his Belly. Its Nourishment is the Earth. It is the Father of every completed Thing in the whole World. Its Strength is intact if it is turned towards the Earth. Separate the Earth by Fire: the fine from the gross, gently, and with great skill.

 It rises from Earth to Heaven, and then it descends again to the Earth, and receives Power from Above and from Below. Thus you will have the Glory of the whole World. All Obscurity will be clear to you. This is the strong Power of all Power because it overcomes everything fine and penetrates everything solid.

 In this way was the World created. From this there will be amazing Applications, because this is the Pattern. Therefore am I called Thrice Greatest Hermes, having the three parts of the Wisdom of the whole World.

 Herein have I completely explained the Operation of the Sun.

--

Sacred-Texts.com/alc/emerald.htm:
"'
In the Ancient Egyptian theology of the creative verb, Ptah created all things by thinking the divine words in his mind and uttering them through his tongue. Between Ptah-on-the-Great-Throne (i.e. the Great One Alone) and the created things stands the mind of Ptah. In this mind, divine words appear and when these are pronounced, the whole of creation unfolds. The major divine word Ptah thinks and utters is "Atum-Re", the creator-god, in whose "image" or "form" Ptah made everything.

Ancient Egyptian theology remained dependent on mythical & pre-rational thought (and thus never realized the rational form, except for a brief period under Akhenaten). In the Hellenized Judaism of Philo, we arrive at a rational exposition of the distinction between God and the "logos" or "word". The latter is conceived as a "second God", responsible for the creation of the universe.

In neo-Platonism, this would trigger the ternary : being-for-itself (monos), being-in-relation (proodos) and being-in-return (epistrophe), which would influence the IVth century articulation of the Nicene dogma of the Trinity of Father, Son (Jesus Christ) and the Holy Spirit.

In Hermetism, God is the Unbegotten One (being-for-itself), the One Mind of the Logos (cf. Plato's "world of ideas") is the Self-Begotten One, Enneadic "First Intellect"), thought to have created the universe (cf. the "Christos Pantokratos" in Byzantine theology) through his "holy word". The latter "... is the son of God coming from his Intellect" (Poimandres), i.e. the Begotten One.

In Hermetism, the triad reads as:

   1. God, the Unbegotten One, the essence of being, the Decad ;
   2. the First Intellect, the Self-Begotten One, the Mind of God, the "Ninth" ;
   3. the holy word or son from the First Intellect, the Begotten One above the Seven Governors, the "Eighth".

In Sufism, ALLAH wants His hidden treasure to be known. The essential unity of being (Decad) and the oneness of existence ("Ninth") are distinguished (Ibn'ArabÅÓ calls this "the most holy emanation"). The former being the ineffable essence of the absolute, whereas the latter is associated with the 99 Divine Names, which are the attributes of the absolute qua absolute. Everything is rooted in them and emanates from them (the so-called "holy emanation"). This happens "in the cloud", which is nothing other than the "Eighth", containing the essence of the created world.

Taken together, these Divine Names constitute the all-comprehensive name "ALLAH", "The God". With this name, the ongoing createdness of the universe is affirmed.

The One Entity is known to Its creation as the One Mind, which contains the "noetic" root of every individual thing that exists (cf. Plato, Spinoza). This Divine Mind (the attributes of the One Entity) allows all things to be transformations (adaptations, modi) of the One Entity :

   1. the One Thing, or the totality of all things (creation, world, universe) plus the essence of being, the One Thing as It Truly Is, which is ineffable (the principle of being) ;
   2. the One Mind, or the Oneness of the Divine Names which Self-express in many particular forms (the relationality of being) ;
   3. the many things, or the plurality of expressions of existence, locus of the continuous theophany under the ÅÊgis of the holy Begotten One (the return of all actual things to their root in the Self-Begotten One Mind of the Unbegotten).

In its neo-Platonic form, this structure was recuperated by the theologians of Constantine, to form the Nicene trinitarian concept of the "One God", which is still the cornerstone of the Catholic concept of God today :

   1. the Father : the good, heavenly and unique principle of absoluteness and transcendence ;
   2. the Son : the unique divine and human son of the heavenly Father (Christ), who, as "logos", creates the universe and, as Saviour, mediates between humanity & the Father ;
   3. the Holy Spirit : the love between Father & Son sets an example, is a comforter and a spiritual guide for Christians to return to the "house of the Father".

4. Its father is the Sun. Its mother the Moon. The Wind carries it in its belly. Its nurse is the Earth. The origin of all the perfections of the world is here. Its force is entire, if it is converted into Earth.

The "enantia" or elemental "opposites" inherent in the created order figure as a paradigm in Empedocles (cf. De Generatione et Corruptione, 330a30). Antinomic reality is structured as four elements : Fire and Air were the active elements and both warm (Fire was dry and Air was moist), whereas Water and Earth were passive and both cold (Water was moist and Earth was dry). In Ionic philosophy, they were viewed as the "arche" of the universe (Water for Thales of Milete, Air for Anaximenes of Milete and Fire for Heraclitus of Ephese).

In Ancient Egypt, these four elements were explicit in the cosmogony of Memphis, as well as in astronomy & ritualism. The foundation of creation was the primordial water before creation (cf. "Nun"). Creation was initiated by the emergence of the primordial hill (earth out of water) struck by a beam of the Sun (fire), which petrified (cf. the "Benben"). This caused the division between heaven and earth (air separating the two). Moreover, the Sun (fire) was considered as the subtlest of the elements for responsible for light (cf. the word "pyramid", from the Greek "pyr" or "fire"). The four elements were placed at the cardinal points of the horizon around the sacred objects (temples, thrones, coffins). They played a central role in ritualism and were called the "Sons of Horus" (Air in the East, Fire in the South, Water in the West and Earth in the North). In Christian times, these associations were projected upon the four evangelists (Luke as the Angel of Air -Aquarius-, Mark as the Lion of Fire -Leo-, John as the Eagle of Water -Scorpio- and Matthew as the Bull of Earth -Taurus-, but other correspondences have been suggested).

In the Tabula, the elements are used to describe the process which allows one to operate the miracles of the One Entity. As everything is a transformation of this One, the spiritual process is described in terms of physical realities, which is the method of alchemy. Indeed, the transformation of lead (Saturn, Earth) into gold (Sun, Fire) is not to be understood as the making of gold out of the gross "prima materia" represented by coarse lead. Physical realities are used as physical means to append or affix processes of a psychological & spiritual nature. The alchemist is thus somebody who performs the miracles of the One Entity in his or hers own consciousness, but who describes this process in terms derived from chemical events. Indeed, as the miracles are at work everywhere, why not standardize certain physical things (like metals) and their co-relative events (purification, mortification, evaporation etc.) to create what seems the language of a physical science, but which actually is a means to describe (in physical terms) what happens in the subtle, psycho-spiritual (inner) world of the alchemist.

That alchemy (also translated as "al-chem", "from Egypt", the "black" land) was rooted in Ancient Egyptian magical practices should not surprise us. In the "Ritual of Opening the Mouth" (used in the Old Kingdom and later to give live to the mummy), the Egyptian priests infused life in a cult statue. Here we see the principle described in the Tabula at work : a physical object (of clay, wood or stone), representing a natural law (a deity), is given "life" by associating it with a complex set of mythical, pre-rational and proto-rational patterns of thought, emotion and actions. Object (the physicality of the statue) and subject (its meaning for those who worship it) are fused. Complex incantations and rituals guaranteed that the physical statue triggered a co-relative spiritual state of consciousness. Once done, the "ka" ('"



CrystaLinks.com/emeraldtablet.html:
"'THE EMERALD TABLET

Thoth spoke of the creation of this reality based on the patterns of Sacred Geometry. As the Ibis headed Scribe who created the story of our reality, he left messages through the grid program that creates our reality - as clues to help us decipher the hidden truths of our creation and what changes are occurring now that many of us feel so strongly.

This is the time of humanity's unfolding. Ancient texts and artifacts are being discovered to help us unravel these ancient mysteries buried in time, until humanity was ready to emerge to its next evolution/ frequency. We quest and question - for truth and a lost heritage that guides our way.

We ask the age old questions, "Who am I? Why am I here? What is my mission?"

To these end Thoth created many tablets and markings to be used as keys of enlightenment. As this is a time for humanity to heal and balance his messages would be connected with the color green linked with the heart chakra, the soul connection to source.

As with all things esoteric - their interpretation would vary based on the reader. One things always remains clear with Thoth - Reality in 3D is a polarity of electromagnetic energies - hence a duality. The soul splits in two - polarity - when it enters 3D. Half remains above and half below - the Yin/yang - male/female - etc. We often experience our other half as our Twin Flame or Twin Soul. Union with our other half is what we ultimately seek to accomplish - once again becoming 'whole' and feeling complete. And so it was written.... "As is Above, So Is Below."

One of Thoth's many clues is the Emerald Tablet. Now we are talking about Alchemy - Gold - transition metals - transition of soul back to higher consciousness - or faster moving frequencies - geometry now changed to reflect higher movement - different elements being reintroduced to the Periodic Table - a movement away from the physical and out of the Alchemy of Time.

There are many stories about Thoth as he played many important roles in third dimension. He is the Alchemist - the Magician - Hermes - Merlin - the Trickster - among others. He plays a good game and keeps you guessing - always one step ahead of you - until now........
'"

Sophiatopia.org/equiaeon/emerald.htm
