Related: GNU, profit, royal, user, usor

Usury is "perpetuated" profit caused by owners who (mostly ignorantly and therefore mostly innocently) mistreat this payment as their own reward.  But profit should be seen as a prepayment toward physical source investment from and for the user who paid it.  This creates a "payer owned" economy.

Owners usually reward themselves instead of investing for the payer because it is difficult to see "over the horizon" in the complex game of economics.  They instead take the 'greedy' (in the sense of the Computer-Science algorithm) approach of collecting that value as their own property.

This causes capital to accumulate into the hands of the few originators while leaving the latecomers to fend for themselves in solitude even after their overpayment should be an obvious declaration of their need to grow.

But since profit can only arise during scarcity, treating it's existence as a reward causes it to incent the destruction of abundance and the withholding of solutions.

Treating it as payer investment spreads the control of those new sources in exact proportion to the amount those actors were willing and able to spend above cost.

----
Nehemiah 5, King James Version of the SUN Book:
>>10 I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might exact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.
>>11 Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth part of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of them.

Deuteronomy 23, King James Version of the SUN Book:
>>19 Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money, usury of victuals, usury of any thing that is lent upon usury:
>>20 Unto a stranger thou mayest lend upon usury; but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon usury: that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to in the land whither thou goest to possess it.


FAX.Libs.UGA.edu/HB539xE46 >>"USURY - A Scriptural, Ethical and Economic View" BY CALVIN ELLIOTT

CyberClass.net/usuryfree.htm and Third

Flag.Blackened.net/daver/anarchism/tucker/tucker18.html >>Capital, Profits and Interest


Usury as "perpetual profit", is considered the very goal of most business-persons and economists.

Proponents of the so-called "Free Market", including most Libertarians such as Ron Paul believe unchecked profiteering to be basis of freedom!

How very backward and unfortunate they do see the true origin and purpose of profit is a plea from the payer for growth in Physical Source ownership toward Source Freedom we all must have if our society is to be 'free'.

"'
When I hear businessmen speak eloquently about the "social responsibilities of business in a free-enterprise system", I am reminded of the wonderful line about the Frenchman who discovered at the age of 70 that he had been speaking prose all his life.  The businessmen believe that they are defending free enterprise when they declaim that business is not concerned "merely" with profit but also with promoting desirable "social" ends; that business has a "social conscience" and takes seriously its responsibilities for providing employment, eliminating discrimination, avoiding pollution and whatever else may be the catchwords of the contemporary crop of reformers.  In fact they are --- or would be if they or anyone else took them seriously -preaching pure and unadulterated socialism.  Businessmen who talk this way are unwitting puppets of the intellectual forces that have been undermining the basis of a free society these past decades.'" -- Milton Friedman in "Corporate Ethics and Corporate Governance" Chapter entitled "The Social Responsibility of Business Is to Increase Its Profits" SpringerLink.com/content/m2141pp14981487h
