Related: Jesus

According to Jordan Maxwell, Yahweh in hebrew means "the release of sexual energy".

Yahweh is a proposed English reading of יהוה (the Tetragrammaton), the name of the God of Israel, as preserved in the original consonantal Hebrew Bible text. The four Hebrew consonants read JHWH (in German transcription) or YHVH (in English transcription). It is also common to use YHWH.

Jews do not pronounce the name, but use e.g. HaShem ("The Name"), out of fear of the potential misuse of the divine name. When Hebrew no longer was a living language, the Masoretes added vowel points to the consonant text to assist readers. To יהוה they added the vowels for "Adonai" ("Lord"), the word to use when the Bible text is read. Also the Septuagint (Greek translation) and Vulgata (Latin translation) use the word "Lord" (kurios and dominus, respectively).

Because the name was no longer pronounced and the vowels were not written, the exact pronunciation was forgotten. When Christians, unaware of the Jewish tradition, started to read the Hebrew Bible, they read יְהֹוָה  with the Masoretic vowels together with the consonants as written, and obtained Iehovah. Today this transcription is generally recognized as mistaken. Many religious groups continue to use the form Jehovah, because it is familiar and because the correct pronunciation of יהוה is unknown.

Various proposals exist for a vocalization of יהוה. Current convention is יַהְוֶה, that is, Yahweh. The 'Yah' part seems fairly certain, for example from Biblical proper names ending in -ia(h) or -yahu. Early Christian literature written in Greek used spellings like Ιαβε can be transcribed by 'Yahweh'.

Today many scholars accept this proposal[1], based on the pronunciation conserved both by the church fathers (as noted above) and by the samaritans[2] (Here 'accept' does not necessarily mean that they actually believe that it describes the truth, but rather that among the many vocalizations that have been proposed, none is clearly superior. That is, 'Yahweh' is the scholarly convention, rather than the scholarly consensus.) -- Wikipedia.org/wiki/Yahweh

"'YAHWEH
Gender: Masculine
Usage: Theology

Pronounced: YAH-wah   [key]
A name of the Hebrew God, represented in Hebrew by the tetragrammaton ("four letters") יהוה (Yod Heh Waw Heh), transliterated into Roman script Y H W H. Because it was considered blasphemous to utter the name of God it was only written and never spoken. This resulted in the original pronunciation being lost. The name may have originally been derived from the old Semitic root (havah) meaning "to be" or "to become".
'" -- BehindTheName.com/php/view.php?name=yahweh
