Related: chat, collect, commun, connect, mail, net, web

Collaborate through collective sharing for common good.

EtherPad.GoogleCode.com >>This is the open source release of EtherPad, a web-based realtime collaborative document editor.

Rudel.sf.net >>Rudel is a collaborative editing environment for GNU Emacs. It supports multiple backends to enable communication with other collaborative editors using different protocols (most notably Gobby). For details about supported protocols and compatibility with other implementations, have a look at the compatibility page.

Collabtive.o-dyn.de >>Collabtive is cloud based groupware easy and efficient for your projects

OBM.org >>OBM is enterprise-class messaging and collaboration platform for workgroup or enterprises with many thousands users. OBM includes many components working together as a complete end-to-end solution: Groupware, messaging server, CRM, LDAP, smartphone and PDA synchronization...

SakaiProject.org >>The Sakai Community develops and distributes the open-source  Sakai CLE, an enterprise-ready collaboration and courseware management platform that provides users with a suite of learning, portfolio, library and project tools.

MetaCollab.org

Idea-Board.sf.net >>There are many programs (e.g., NetMeeting, MSN Messenger, CVW) that offer a shared whiteboard application; and there are some programs that support mindmapping. But there are no applications that I've seen that intelligently combine the two concepts to allow real-time brainstorming/mindmapping by a group of people (with version control) that results in a usable mindmap and outline. idea-board is envisioned to be a project that fills this need. It is in the early stages of requirement writing; and I will be seeking programming assistance to speed its development.

CollabEdit.sf.net >>?, http://www.img-teufel.de/uploads/Bildschirmfoto9480a86epng.png

CollabEd.sf.net >>CollabEd is a collaboration platform that can be plugged into (currently only Java-based) editors to enable non-locking, synchronous, real-time collaboration between different editors. It also provides session playback, a simple chat and a group-list window for awareness. CollabEd places all the control into the user's hands. All that's required to collaborate with others is the network address, your group and password. If you don't want to host your own collaborations, we provide a server and you don't have sign up for the service.

CVE.sf.net >>CVE is an open-source, multiplatform system for building low-cost collaborative virtual environments. CVE started life at New Mexico State University with support from NSF grant 0402572.

CerebralNexus.sf.net >>This project was originally motivated by the desire to do quick sketch-ups and other brainstorming activities collaboratively, even when the participants are unable to meet in person. This is still the main motivation, but as we have worked on designing and creating Cerebral Nexus, we have thought of numerous other applications, including using it in study groups or tutoring sessions among other things.

So2.Sys-Techs.com/chiel >>Chiel is a network capable text editor designed to allow any number of users to edit a single file at the same time. It features syntax highlighting for a number of languages, and seeks to be as light as a feather so you can avoid excessive downloads needed for other solutions. Chiel is written in ANSI C, and should be portable to a number of operating systems including Windows (Linux and OSX have been tested).

http://ulises.tel.uva.es/collage >>Collage helps users in the process of creating their own (collaborative) Learning Designs starting with existing patterns. These patterns are called CLFPs (Collaborative Learning Flow Patterns) and represent broadly accepted techniques that are repetitively used by collaborative learning practitioners when structuring the flow of types of learning activities involved in collaborative learning situations. That is, Collage enables an easy edition of potential effective IMS-LD Units of Learning by reusing and customizing best practices in collaborative learning structuring according to the requirements and conditions of a particular learning scenario.

sf.net/projects/aether9 >>AEther9 is an experiment in collaborative realtime storytelling through the use of networked video transmission.

MateEdit.sf.net >>MateEdit is a collaborative editor, which lets you share your documents with friends who may be in the next room or all over the world.

sf.net/projects/upcase-project >>UPCASE stands for User Platform of Collaborative Applications for the Social Economy. The UPCASE software is a generic installer of PHP + MySQL applications. Each supported software is considerd as package available via our package-server.

Interreality.org >>The Interreality Project is an Open Source, Free Software project based on the Virtual Object System (VOS) platform. The primary goal of the Interreality project is to develop a free, open, and flexible platform for multiuser, interactive, collaborative, distributed and interconnected virtual environments and data systems. As part of this effort we have developed VOS, a powerful distributed object platform with many applications in and beyond virtual environments.
