                Cross-Crowd Predictive Production


Cross-Crowd is a new Organizational Form combining parts of CrowdFunding, CrowdSourcing, Time Banking, Basic Income, Profit Sharing, Community Currency, Group Governance, Permaculture and other 'social' initiatives to form a direct and cohesive approach to needs-based development.


==Rough Implementation Plan
Buy land, water-rights, tools, plants, animals, etc. to build a Vertically Integrated Permaculture Mosaic (VIPM)

Calculate minimum size and complexity to house and feed on-site participants plus that required to compensate off-site investors.

Identify symbiotic plant, animal and fungus species needed for raw materials of food, soap, paper, cloth, fuel, etc.

Find affordable farmland, hopefully with naturally sufficient water or humidity.

Research how to register as a non-profit entity to avoid paying property taxes.

Crowd-Fund the money needed to buy the land water-rights, flora/fauna/fungi, tools, etc. needed to begin production.

Also Crowd-Fund the money needed to buy tents or trailers, bulk food, paper, used clothes, etc. needed to sustain workers during bootup.

Crowd-Funders and Workers both receive real co-ownership in the VIPM with the natural ROI being a % of the outputs of that production.

Workers are initially paid a "Basic Outcome" consisting of bare essentials such as tent or trailer housing and cafeteria-style meals.


==Timeline
Estimate the scale and diversity of production for the goods and services we want.

Issue "Product-Futures" each representing a portion of the property and promises.

Sell these to the crowd in return for their commitments of property and promises.

Workers are offered temporary shelters (such as tents) until the first permanent structures are complete and cafeteria meals from bulk-food purchases until the agriculture is productive.


0.) Investors become co-Owners in the VIPM according to the value they commit toward future production as measured by others accepting these commitments.  This means anyone investing Property or Promises receives property ownership in the productive assets for the purpose of accepting the Product (good or service) as the nature return on that investment.

1.) A Promise-to-work is another type of Investment.  This means some Consumers will prepay (think a variant of crowd sourcing mixed with scheduled time-banking) by committing to work in the future in return for co-ownership in the VIPM.

2.) Product is the Investor's return.  This means the product is never sold (except surplus as defined in #3) because each co-owner has spread their investments across all the Physical Sources of production for which they predict they will need the Objects, and in just enough to receive the amount the need.  This eliminates profit because the final transaction does not occur.  This is known as economic imputation.

3.) Profit is the Payer's Investment.  This means we will charge profit against those who buy surplus Objects, but treat (at least some % of) as an Investment in more Physical Sources that will finally vest to the Consumer who paid it so that every Consumer incrementally gains co-ownership in the Physical Sources needed to produce all the Objects they need.

4.) Secession is a protected right.  This means any subgroup may secede for any arbitrary reason while retaining their portion of of ownership that property.  This is an attempt to address the Tyranny of the Majority.


====Bootup:
Purchase the assets needed to begin.  And attract workers willing to live on-site to begin installing the agriculture and building the first of the shared structures.

'Hire' the Workers by having them sign contracts to work a certain number of hours per week or to achieve certain goals within some time-frame in return for co-ownership in the VIPM and for cross-commitments of work from other skilled laborers.

Workers receive co-ownership according to how much they commit to achieve as measured by others within the VIPM that need those services less the amount the must cross-commitment to pay other workers.

All investors (whether Crowd-Funders living off-site or Workers living on-site) must continue to pay the recurring costs of production or slowly lose ownership as their portion of the VIPM is sold to cover those costs.

On-site investors will usually pay their recurring costs with commitments of labor.

Off-site investors will usually pay recurring costs with money used to buy assets that we are not yet able to generate on-site until we are fully Vertically Integrated.


====Growth:
As the agriculture begins to produce, most of the output is not sold, but is already the property of each investor according to the amount of property they own.

Most investors will eventually have surplus (especially after a few years of growth and natural regeneration of species).

Each investor can choose to do whatever they like with their own surplus except for one specific constraint: "Profit must be treated as Payer Investment".

For example, say you have 100 extra lbs of Olives. You can turn these into oil and try to burn them in a diesel engine, or you can offer them as a sacrifice to your God, or you can sell them to your neighbor *but* if you sell them, you must treat any amount above Costs as though the buyer had made an investment in the VIPM.

Separating Profit from Wages is a bit complicated.  If you do all of the work of selling the Olives, then you can claim that everything the buyer paid beyond any other Costs you may have incurred is your Wages for doing that work.

That is completely fine, even if it seems you are overpaying yourself.

But if you hire someone to sell the Olives, or (and this next case will be the most common) if you just let the VIPM storehouse sell any of your surplus for you, then those workers will be paid wages that are easily separated from Profits, and so all you will receive are the Costs needed to cover that overproduction - so you will usually "break even" with regards to any surplus but never "make a profit".

This means you will want to own just enough of each part of the VIPM as you need of each product except you will likely want to own just a little bit more as a sort of 'insurance' against the possibility lean years of production caused by drought or pestilence, etc.
