Related: GNUrho, money, water

WildFire.CommunityCurrency.net

Currencies help universalize trade.

Currency should be a literal insurance backed by productive sources such as the GNUrho.

While workers might be consumers of some of what they make, they are also consumers of the act if their object is play.  Users as workers who rent and users as consumers who buy become joint owners of those sources according to the price they pay above cost - for this is a measure of their desire to grow.

The price paid beyond cost for any Free Source you rent or any Free Object you buy represents the source shares you now own.  Those sources also back a currency that acts as a literal insurance of your future needs.

The more that you buy, or the more that you rent, a higher percentage of the field, trees and tools become yours.  To maximize forking and automate zoning, you are free to hold them private when you are the only supporter.

Physical sources are prone to moth and rust, so the current owners must collect some rent to cover those costs.  Holding a source private is a special cost against all other humans as a result of the finite properties of that source.

Source allocation is an important function of legitimate government, but privacy is vital to sovereignty, so we must not just eliminate property rights.

This is similar to the need for resource scheduling and allocation in a multitasking computer Operating System kernel.  The computer hardware is our planet.  The processes are the humans.  The kernel is the legal infrastructure of agreements and laws.

Some kernels(laws) may allow a process(human or corporation) to hold more than their fair share of sources such as Land(Disk space and RAM), Energy(CPU), Water(Networking) and Design(Software).  This is a direct problem for procs that start later (newborns), or that have not organized in some other manner.  It makes it difficult to cooperate and specialize without becoming one of the hoarders yourself.  It is also an indirect problem because it incents hoarders to create artificial scarcity to make both workers and consumers more vulnerable so that wages can be lowered and prices can be raised.  This externalization of costs is the primary cause of the excessive pollution and destruction we observe today.

The General Public Lease (a new GPL for physical sources) intends to help any owner stake out some land and capital within this chaos and begin to collaborate with other humans to form communities protected from the usurist bacteria who would otherwise enclose and hoard those sources to leverage profit.  The GPL internalizes costs so that abundance becomes it's own reward, and profit beyond cost is meaningless because we (the collective owners) would then only be stealing from ourselves.

Through this legal hackery originating in Saint IGNUcius, agriculture and all lesser professions are finally "protected from success", as the consumers of GPL objects (such as a fruit) incrementally become partial owners of the GPLed source (the fruit tree) and any GPLed supporting sources (land, water, tools) when they receive that object.  No more pouring wine down the drain as described at OpenLife.cc because bounty is beautiful when sources are Free.

TargetedCurrencies.net

http://docs.google.com/View?docid=ddm6qs69_0qj7hx9f6 Bazaar.MatSlats.net
