Related: diary

Nov-21-2012: Crowd Control

In the future, crowds will fund the production of their own basic needs.

They will cross-commit property land and tools

They will cross-commit promises of future labor

They will share sources to allocate the finished goods to thos

Each will become the co-owner in the Sources of that for which they need the outputs.

They will buy and co-own the land, water-rights, flora/fauna/fungi, tools, energy required to create all of their own food, housing, transport, health-care, transportation, etc. they know they will need.

property to pre-allocate product to those 

Workers, when acting as consumers, pay all the costs of production when they buy finished goods and services.

so they might as well invest and become owners with real control of those results.

Workers, acting as consumers, will buy the Physical Sources of the goods and services they need.


I wonder why we are so scared and feeble that we will not accept the risks of co-ownership even though we pay for all those risks in the end anyway, and we pay all other costs *and* we pay profit because we refuse to organize for our own mutual benefit.

We cannot do this alone in gardens. Most people do not have those skills, and this pretends we do not need specialization to compete against the many-headed beast of corporatism.

Monsanto is just doing what every other profit-seeking entity must do: destroy all alternatives so wealth is concentrated into the hands of the shareholders.



Nov-18-2012: 


Quiliro Ordóñez wrote:

> Invite people to the time bank
> Ask them what they needed
> Find who could provide that
> Ask the provider what s/he wanted
> Ask who could provide what s/he wanted
> Ask the provider what s/he wanted


Website to exchange in 3 ways:

Artisans advertise goods and services they would provide if they could access the tools for free.



Provide 

 Fund and 
> Find who could provide that
> Ask the provider what s/he wanted
> Ask who could provide what s/he wanted
> Ask the provider what s/he wanted



>
> and so on until all debts were paid.
>
> Time banks work as normal coinage banks. Every transaction is either a
> deposit or a withdrawal:
>
> When giving something, it is accounted as a deposit of its value in hours.
> When receiving something, it is accounted as a withdrawal of its value in
> hours.
>
> When there is not enough balance in the bank to pay for something, you can
> get a loan at no interest. The time bank will charge a percentage of the
> transaction to pay for the process of getting buyers and sellers in contact
> and keeping track of transactions.
>
> -- 
> Saludos libres,
>
> Quiliro Ordóñez
> Presidente (en conjunto con el resto de socios)
> Asociación de Software Libre del Ecuador - ASLE
> Av de la Prensa N58-219 y Cristóbal Vaca de Castro
> Quito, Ecuador
> (593)2-600 8579
> (593)98-454 8078




Nov-12-2012: 

> Your proposal transfers the cost of production
> directly to users proportionately. No users get
> physical products if they do not contribute. And
> the more they contribute, the more they get.

Yes, and also understanding that a "promise to work"
is just as much of a contribution as land or tools.


> I have developed a method by which trade can be
> done at the start.

Yes!  This is so important!  Most of what money is
about has to do with "time delay" in production.

As you say, trading work early eliminates the
usual need to pay wages.

While sharing Sources* early eliminates the need to
buy those products because they are "pre-allocated"
to each consumer already - in the same % as their
ownership in the Sources of those products.

(*) I sometimes use the word Sources as another
phrase for "Means of Production", mostly because
the inspiration for this model is the GNU GPL.


> the rich might be able to purchase large amounts of
> goods and become enormous investors. In this way
> they would still be able to maintain power and
> control. This would be possible because it would
> still let them trade outside. Maybe you could
> include this question (maybe by rephrasing it) on
> theP2PFoundation wiki User_Owned FAQs. (I am not a
> native English speaker so the phrasing might be
> awkward.)

This is supposedly solved by the Terms of Operation
that require profit be treated as payer investment.

So over-investing will not be valuable beyond being
a sort of insurance against underproduction caused
by natural disaster, accidents, etc.

Does that make sense?  I wonder if I am explaining
it in a way people can digest...


> Possibly it is possible to reverse in the
> implementation of your proposal.

I don't understand what you mean here.



Nov-09-2012: 

Alexander Berntsen wrote:
> the current area of research and
> experimentation needs to be how
> to we fund free game developers.

Let's develop a new Crowd Funding
platform for Free Software where
customers vote for *future* bug-
fixes and features by committing
a "promise-to-fund" that charges
their account only if the target
is met.

The target is set by developers
who reverse-bid for that job.

This allows Users to guide the
direction of that fork, while
also letting subgroups fork when
large enough to attract developer.

This Crowd Funding platform can
come in the form of  a patch or
plugin or alternate client for
Ubuntu Software Center,
Google Play Store for Android,
Apple App Store and iTunes,
RedHat, SUSE, Oracle, HP, Dell,
Microsoft, etc.

It could also be used to fund
Free Software Hosting to allow
users to safely rent instances
of software or VMs or storage
or game servers, email, etc.

The potential for exploitation
and misuse increases as this
approach succeeds, and so we
also need a legally-binding
Social Contract that stops us
from turning sour as we grow.

I have some very careful ideas
about what should be included
in the Social Contract.


Sincerely,
Patrick Anderson
http://ImputedProduction.BlogSpot.com


Nov-09-2012: 

Henry George says tax (rent) must weigh against speculation, not production.

For example, who should should we tax more in this scenario?:

1.) A real-estate group holding 1 acre of idle land very near the city.

2.) A permaculture group working 1 acres of land very near the city.

Current taxation would give #1 a nearly free-ride for squandering land,
while #2 is punished severely for growing food and accomplishing goals.

How do we become so confused that we want to punish abundance?
It is only because we refuse to reconsider the purpose of production.

We do not see how Product can be a Direct Return on Investment (DROI).

We do not see that Consumers can be the Owners, and so do not see that
Product can be pre-allocated to those who need it and in this way
Price == Cost and Profit is safely eliminated.

We ignorantly strive to keep Price above Cost, and so we strive for
scarcity and worry about others 'dumping' goods at a low Price.
Abundance is seen as dangerous because the goals of our investors
conflicts with the goals of the consumers.

This conflict will be resolved when we finally see that consumers can
be the investors (they already pay all the costs anyway), and the
Product will be the natural ROI for those stakeholders without the
need to ever sell the Product at all (except surplus).

Under these conditions, government and business can safely merge, and
so tax will be collected by each group in the form of 'dues' to cover
Costs, and in the form of Profit when charging non-owners who buy
surplus Product.


Nov-09-2012:
http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/the-post-apocalypse-survival-machine-nerd-farm

Jakubowski bought 30 acres for $60k to start the 
dirt floor hut

self-sufficient community producing its own food, energy, tools, and raw materials for making those tools.

off the grid



, brick press, tractor

Jakubowski planted 100 trees in one day, pressed 500 bricks “from the dirt
beneath my feet,” also in one day, and built a tractor in six.

$360,000

hygene

400 fruit trees produce little fruit


A curved dirt path runs from Jakubowski’s hut to the main workshop area. On
either side of the path are yurts and shacks with clotheslines strung between
them. An old toilet bowl is used for growing herbs; chickens and rabbits sit
in cages awaiting food. About 200 yards past the yurts is a larger structure
called the Hab Lab, which was built by a local carpenter as a barracks during
the post-TED Talk overflow. It’s easy to find from the smell.

chore schedules are ignored

common area open buckets of rotting waste, gag-inducing stench that sticks to the lining of the


A half-dozen or so young Factor e farmhands live in the Hab Lab. Three came
from Greece as part of an agricultural education program and spend the
majority of their days watching cartoons online. What the Hab Lab lacks in
plumbing, it makes up for in Wi-Fi. No one’s wearing shirts. There’s no air
conditioning, and the straw stuffed into the mud walls for insulation doesn’t
cool things down much.

Vann Miller, 39, keeps his Maserati parked in front of the Hab Lab. He’s a
freelance software developer with homes in San Francisco, New Orleans, and
now a secluded hexagonal yurt at Factor e Farm, where he’s lived for about a
month. He stayed in the Hab Lab for a while but decided to build the yurt out
of insulation panels from Home Depot (HD). “It took me a week to clear the
site with a shovel and pickax,” says Miller. “I leveled it with gravel, which
helps keep out the water and the animals.”

Miller has a 100-foot power cable stretching from an outlet in an old living
area into his yurt, where a MacBook Air (AAPL) sits on a small, plastic
table. He says his area of expertise—software coding practices that speed up
project development—should up the tempo of Factor e Farm’s tool-building. “I
have been holding orientation meetings and people seem to be adopting the
agile-development techniques well,” he says.

The drinking water had been drawn from a well on the property, but the well
and a filter couldn’t keep up with all the farm’s guests. “A couple of weeks
ago, a few people started getting sick,” says Marshall Hilton, 28, an
engineer from San Francisco. “We decided it might be the water and now don’t
recommend that people drink it,” he says.

As with the other Factor e dwellers, Hilton’s bathroom is a 5-gallon bucket.
“I am composting my own waste,” he says. “I line my bucket with about two
inches of subsoil. Every time I make a deposit, I cover it with organic
matter. I have my bucket in my yurt, and it’s sealed off. There are no bugs.
Well, I mean, there are a few bugs.”


As part of the ground rules for my visit to the farm in July, I agree to help
a squad of farmworkers build a set of rooms on the side of the Hab Lab. To
really appreciate what they’re doing here, went the pitch, I should work
beside them. So on the second morning of my visit I report for duty. The
others never do. “That’s typical,” says John Marlatt, a local retired
carpenter who showed up to lead the project. “The kids are always supposed to
help, but usually they’re all inside and don’t do anything unless Marcin
rustles them up. Oh, and don’t drink the water. Seriously. I mean it.”

The Hab Lab no-shows notwithstanding, there are some signs the farm may be
getting its act together. Gabrielle LeBlanc has just been hired as the
agriculture chief. She’s a 22-year-old from suburban Los Angeles who wears a
tie-dye dress and has a “hemp history week” sticker on her laptop. “I am used
to foraging for my food,” she says. “I enjoy being out with the birds and
bugs.” LeBlanc studied animal science at the University of California-Davis.
A couple days before my arrival, she had the farm pay $1,000 for a dairy cow
(plus $30 for delivery), which she has named Good Cow and now keeps on the
farm in a paddock enclosed by an electric fence. LeBlanc plans to get the
greenhouse back in order before next planting season and to plant some crops
and dig a pond. Hilton, one of the yurt-dwelling engineers, has been refining
a DIY compressed-earth brick press and is hopeful he can turn it into
something the farm can sell for $9,000 each. “The closest competitor is
$45,000,” he says.

With his funding from the Shuttleworth Foundation and other organizations,
Jakubowski says he plans to move from a volunteer workforce to an established
team. He also wants to shift from a handful of haphazard projects taking
place to doing a dozen at one time. He acknowledges it may seem odd to have
food and building materials shuttled into a “self-sustaining” community from
nearby supermarket chains and Home Depot. “Right now, we depend on
off-the-shelf parts, but the point is we are building the machines we need
for the next phase,” Jakubowski says. “Soon, we’ll build the components of
the machines and then build the materials.”

By “build the materials,” Jakubowski means he would like to eventually
extract the elemental natural resources for his tools as well. “We have
techniques for aluminum extraction from clay,” he says. He wants to produce
his own metal for robots and computers. He even intends to build his own
computer chips by finding a supply of silicon and constructing a
mini-semiconductor fabrication plant.

The Factor e Farm may seem crude now but, Jakubowski emphasizes, it’s just
one node in the network he envisions. The answers will not all come from him
or the farm. Other people will improve the designs, and, in time, a
“distributed enterprise” will arise—a society in which the people have taken
back control of their technology and lowered the basic cost for existence by
several orders of magnitude. “That is the model for the next economy,”
Jakubowski says. “By open-sourcing the entire production system, you can
increase innovation by a hundredfold.” His rhetoric really soars when he
begins to explain the “e” in Factor e. According to the commune’s website,
“e” stands for “ecology, experiments, and exponents, evolving to freedom. E
is a transcendental number. It is the growth rate of any natural system. E is
our existence.”

Marlatt, the retired carpenter, agrees that Jakubowski can come across as
eccentric, even delusional, but blames at least some of the farm’s disarray
on this summer’s brutal drought. He’s cautiously optimistic. “This is most
definitely a good idea,” Marlatt says. “America is in trouble, and the idea
of being energy-efficient and knowing how to survive and build things is the
right course.”

Come December, Jakubowski plans to start selling the brick presses and prove
that the farm can make a profit of $5,000 per day from one of its machines.
In the meantime, he’ll keep enduring the curious people who drive by the farm
to peek at the strange folks building the strange contraptions. As Jakubowski
tells the locals, “Look us up on the Internet. We are not thugs. We are
trying to build a new civilization.” Vance is a technology writer for
Bloomberg Businessweek.

	
Click here to Reply, Reply to all, or Forward
4% full
Using 0.4 GB of your 10.1 GB
©2012 Google - Terms & Privacy
Last account activity: 1 hour ago
Details
People (4)
Eugen Leitl	

Add to circles

Show details

Nov-08-2012: 