Related: diary

Dec-17-2008: BancoPalmas.org >>

Dec-12-2008: Arxiv.org/abs/cs/0606004 "A Framework for the Development of Manufacturing Simulators: Towards New Generation of Simulation Systems" >>In this paper, an attempt is made to systematically discuss the development of simulation systems for manufacturing system design. General requirements on manufacturing simulators are formulated and a framework to address the requirements is suggested. Problems of information representation as an activity underlying simulation are considered. This is to form the necessary mathematical foundation for manufacturing simulations. The theoretical findings are explored through a pilot study. A conclusion about the suitability of the suggested approach to the development of simulation systems for manufacturing system design is made, and implications for future research are described.

Full text (379kb): Arxiv.org/pdf/cs/0606004v1


Dec-08-2008: MPRA.UB.UNI-Muenchen.de/11765 "Civilization and the evolution of short sighted agents    Basuchoudhary, Atin, Allen, Sam and Siemers, Troy (2008)" >> We model an assurance game played within a population with two types of individuals -- short-sighted and foresighted. Foresighted people have a lower discount rate than short sighted people. These phenotypes interact with each other. We define the persistent interaction of foresighted people with other foresighted people as a critical element of civilization while the interaction of short sighted people with other short sighted people as critical to the failure of civilization. We show that whether the short sighted phenotype will be an evolutionary stable strategy (and thus lead to the collapse of civilization) depends on the initial proportion of short sighted people relative to people with foresight as well as their relative discount rates. Further we explore some comparative static results that connect the probability of the game continuing and the relative size of the two discount rates to the likelihood that civilization will collapse.

Full text (280kb): MPRA.UB.UNI-Muenchen.de/11765/1/MPRA_paper_11765.pdf
