Related: diary

Sep-27-2013: youtube.com/user/eftwizard, PathwayToHappiness.com

Sep-26-2013: Posted to StackExchange
It is possible to satisfy investors with the product itself if those investors happen to be the customers of that product, and if they each invest only just enough to produce the amount they need.

This is a variation of crowdfunding that will likely become popular in the near future.

The idea is to attract potential customers to essentially pre-pay for the goods and services they want and then use that money to begin production.

Instead of selling the product, the product is actually used to pay the investors.

Since the product is never sold, the price each consumer pays is exactly the costs they paid as a co-owner and so profit does not even exist because the final transaction (selling the product) does not occur.

For example, imagine a large group of people want to start a shared transportation system.

They get together and estimate the size of the operation needed to accomplish this goal (such as how many cars, vans and buses they will need).

They then 'issue' tickets that will be valid for use later, when the system is finally operational.

These tickets are sold at a discount rate to attract people to buy them *now* even though they cannot be used immediately.

Each ticket has a "window of validity" such that they are not usable until some date, and expire after some later date.  There may be other constraints as well.

Each person in the group buys as many tickets as they want.  There is no need to require some minimum or maximum limit.

This money is used to purchase the equipment and hire the drivers and mechanics.

As time goes on, more tickets will be issued and sold to cover recurring costs.

Sep-25-2013: Possible DIA replacement: Drakon-Editor.sf.net

Sep-25-2013: Investigating some music apps: KXStudio.sf.net, Hydrogen-Music.org, DreamStudio, Qtractor.sf.net, Jambuntu.org, 
Sep-24-2013: Joined BountySource.com
Sep-24-2013: Reviving and generalizing thoughts from EmacsWiki.org/emacs/AutoExtend toward `crowdfund-on-error'

Sep-24-2013: Zooming interface like Prezi: EagleMode.sf.net
Sep-24-2013: Title idea: NoLoan
Sep-21-2013: Title idea: Crowd Fun

preorder, prepay, prepaid, predictive, preemptive


Sep-18-2013: Cross-Crowd
Sep-02-2013: new
