related: diary

Mar-23-2012: Sharing Sources and Swapping Skills

We can all enjoy healthy food if we can learn to share the costs of production for our own benefit.

But until we learn to share, we must grow mushrooms all alone, or resort to purchasing them from the corporations that cause so much trouble.

And even if we buy from a co-op, we still must *buy* because we do not already *own*.

But the only reason we do not own the Products we need is that we do not co-own the Sources of those Products.

And the only reason we might not apply the work to those Sources is that we do not know how.

And so, for now, most of us cannot afford to buy the finished product, and also do not have the skills to produce these things in solitary confinement.

Society requires Solutions.
Solutions require Production.
Production requires Sources and Skills.

Solutions are the goods and services we all need: water/sewer, food/medicine, shelter/storage, soap, cloth, energy, transportation, communication, education/child-care, etc.

Sources are the land, plants, animals, tools, buildings, energy, etc. required to sustain human life.

Skills are all necessary human interactions with Sources that have not yet been eliminated or automated.

We can move away from passing tokens by pre-allocating products and pre-scheduling tasks.

Products are pre-allocated when the end-user co-owns the Physical Sources (the material Means of Production) for that product.

The co-owner of an Avocado tree doesn't buy Avocados, he owns them already!
The co-owner of a milk cow does not buy milk he owns it already!
The co-owner of a Collectivity-Restaurant does not buy meals, he owns them already!

Goods and services can be preallocated by Sharing Sources and Swapping Skills *before* production begins.


Mar-17-2012: More title ideas:
Viable System Model, VIPM, closed-loop ecology, circular-village, social-loop, ring-around-the-security, creation-station, maker's-fair, makeoff, doit-chopit-rollit-shakeit-poundit-spreadit-lapit-slurpit-ladelit-splitit-butterit-sauceit-praiseit.

Mar-12-2012: Physical Salvation as the true Purpose of Religion

==Plea
We, the people, must be the change we seek.
We must replace corporation and government.

We will buy land and water-rights and tools and plants
and animals needed for reproduction of our daily bread.

But we must structure ourselves differently from within
lest we grow into yet another head of that deadly beast.


==Implementation
Production requires Sources and Skills.


Barriers to entry are reduced when users have at-cost access to Sources.

A User that co-owns Sources can hire any Worker

Product is the natural return for risk.

Consumers invest Skills or Sources and accept their % of the Product as return.

Profit indicates property misallocation.
Consumers can accept Product as their return on investment.

Every worker is a consumer who's inputs must be secured.


==The Payer-Owned Mode of Production
There is no sale when an person owns the Sources of the
Objects that they need,

==Proof

====Transactional Analysis

====Optimizations

==Sharing Sources

====Scheduling


==Swapping Skills

====Scheduling
Property ownership is not "worth it" if it is not being used.
We already have this problem with capital being almost continuously idle.

Production requires we share Sources and swap Skills.
1.) Property ownership in land and water rights.
2.) Heirloom plants and animals for food, medicine, soap, cloth, building materials.
3.) Tools, and eventually the tools to make tools.
4.) Skills applied to these Sources to create Products.

We cannot solve such an ancient and continuing problem without understanding why we fail.


==Sharing Sources and Swapping Skills

Committing to achieve specific goals in the future is the workers' Promise to Pay.

Scheduling 

Allocation


Profit is a growth-vector we can 'reflect' toward the payer as his investment in even more Means of Production - so the growth of the organization is continuously redistributed to those willing to pay for the growth and then continuation of that production.

We can change the system from within by regaining control of production.
This is an ancient and continuing struggle for our planet.

==The Problem with Production
Production is already taking place, but it is controlled by those who seek profit.
But to seek profit is to seek scarcity, because profit *requires* scarcity.


As a farm-boy in Idaho, my dad told me about a US government program that pays farmers to keep land out of production to increase scarcity so price remains above costs.

Those farmers, and most all entrepreneurs are in such debt that most of the profits are passed along to bankers.


To seek Profit is to accidentally seek scarcity.



They pool their resources, but instead of using

There is another reason for production that is

Non-profit corporations and organizations have many of the same problems because they do not direct profit

We must buy, co-own and occupy the property required to host the production of our continuing needs.

We must host the housing and food production and child-care and health-care and transportation and *everything* that 



Mar-08-2012:
> The Cook Unit is redeemable in product or service.

> Working Capital Partnership ("Guarantee Society")

> workers and consumers issues credit with reference to the Cook Unit,
> and in return workers and consumers employ capital.

> Guarantee Society assets under nominal custody.

> Farmers and consumers might see fit to expand
> farming infrastructure by forming an asset chain
> with the proceeds. Maybe they throw more farmland
> into the works, warehouses, processing facilities,
> a refinery, an electrical generation facility etc.
