Related: diary

Jun-20-2011:
Patrick Anderson wrote:
Governments are mostly unable to regulate corporations because those
corporations are actually regulating governments through lobbying,
bribery, blackmail and other subtle ways used to create or adjust laws.

So you might say corporations 'regulate' themselves through government
processes which they write or modify for their own purposes.

But these kind of 'regulations' do not achieve what we, the people,
want because of a much more fundamental problem with those bodies.


Corporations, in their current form, cannot do the "right thing" because
they/we erroneously believe Profit to be the goal of production while
somehow misplacing Product itself as the real end.

This is caused by our choosing investors who expect to be paid Profit.

This can be solved by choosing investors who expect to be paid Product.

But the only investors able to accept Product as a return are the
future Users of that Product.

So we must organize Users to co-buy and co-own the Sources of
Production for the purpose of receiving at-cost use-value.

Corporations organized in this way will have no reason to work
against we, the people, except when selling some of that Product
to non-owners.

For that we must write a Terms-of-Operation as a form of self-regulation
to impose the constraint "Profit is Payer Investment" so that all Users
incrementaly gain ownership in the Sources of the Products they need.




Jun-01-2011: 
Miles Fidelman wrote:
> It's certainly not clear to me that building
> a whole new infrastructure is the solution

We, the Users, will ultimately buy and own all
of the current solutions and build many more.

We already pay all the Costs of production,
And we also pay Profit because we pay late.

When the Users are the Owners,
Price is Cost and Profit is 0.


Miles wrote:
> Patrick wrote:
>> When the Users are the Owners,
>> Price is Cost and Profit is 0.
>>
>
> So... users are going to build chips, boards, boxes, places to put them,
> power supplies, .... at no cost.

Well, I was saying Profit is Zero
when the Users own that subnet.

But more carefully, Profit is UNDEFINED.

Profit is the difference between Price and Cost.

Users finally pay all Costs the Owners had to pay.

And they also pay Profit because...
well, because of their lack of Ownership.

But what if the Users *are* the co-Owners?

When the Users Own the Sources,
they must pay all Costs of Production,
and they must pay them early.

They receive Product as the Return.

Since no sale occurs, Profit is UNDEFINED.
