Related: diary

Aug-31-2013: Intra-Owner Trade Agreement (IOTA)

The IOTA is a legally-binding Terms of Operation between all the co-owners of some productive assets.




Cross-Product Future



Product: Any Good or Service such as apples or dental work.
Surplus: When a Property produces more than a Consumer can use directly.  This will actually be common as 

Profit:  Difference between Owner_Costs and Conumer_Price.  Undefined for Consumer_Property except Surplus.

Promise: A commitment to work in the future.



====CONCEPT:
Workers receive solutions to all their needs.

When the consumers of an output are the owners of the inputs, production can safely operate "at cost" while profit is undefined.

For example, when the eater of an orange is the owner of the land, water-rights, tools, trees, etc. needed to create oranges, then he must pay all the costs of production (including wages for work he does not do himself).



When 

We can own all the land and tools and organisms used to produce of all our food, housing, cloth, soap, sanitation, health care, transportation, education, etc.

But it requires group control in `


                ROUGH IMPLEMENTATION PLAN

====BOOT PHASES
==PRE-BOOT
Workers on-site during BOOTUP are offered tents or movable buildings for shelter and cafeteria meals from bulk-food purchases.

Buy the bare land, the tools, plants and animals, etc needed to build and maintain shared parts of the property, including permaculture, some buildings.

Groups are 


SCALE ESTIMATES:

size of parcel, 
Number of workers, 

Additional needed to supply investing consumers.a


AQUISITION:
 cost of the raw land and tools.
Estimate 

Estimate number of industries and workers needed for minimal 'BOOTUP' phase.
Issue "Product Futures" at that scale.
Most middle-to-upper class consumers will buy Product Futures with plain old money.
Most lower-to-middle class consumers will buy Product Futures with work bonds (commitments to work in the future).


PHASE 1:


Imagine a community or village with enough productive complexity to provide a 'reasonable' standard of living for all those who work and live there.

So there is an orchard and a dairy and a bakery and a dentist office, etc.

But the distribution of property ownership in this community is very strange compared to most:

The bakery is owned by the subgroup that wants bread instead of being owned by the bakers.
And the dairy is owned by the subgroup that wants milk instead of being owned by the milkers.
And the water is owned by the subgroup that wants water instead of being owned by the water-workers.
And the beehives are owned by the subgroup that wants honey instead of being owned by the beekeepers.
etc.

This causes the PRODUCTS of these industries to be 'pre-distributed' (already owned by) those who will finally consume them.  This means there is no need to buy/sell the PRODUCT because it is already the property of those who need it.

This assumes each consumer owns the *perfect* amount of shares in each industry to receive the *exact* amount of PRODUCT they predicted they would need *and* that their prediction was perfect, *and* that the quantity and quality of the projected production was perfectly accurate.

I know how to solve each of those problems, but will save that for a later mail.  I only bring it up now to avoid concentrating on it.

The other major issue I will cover in a future mail is how the workers can "swap skills" in an efficient manner (hint: by committing to those tasks *before* production begins).

When used in combination, these constraints create a real insurance for any industry and allows workers to specialize without excessive token-passing (the need to use of money is greatly reduced).






Sufficiently diverse groups of workers can meet their basic needs within a 

 source and skills 

With land and tools

A group of 100 to 1000 diversely skilled workers on 100 - 1000 acres could do this with access to the Means of Production.

There is milk and honey where there are cattle and bees.
But only if workers can trade skills between themselves

As groups cluster, they can own and operate the entire vertically integrated chain (actually tree) of production for all the products they want.

We can help this groups to cluster 
 these 
The further we scale they closer they approach autonomy.

as a multi-phase 


You can think of these as legally-binding Commitments of Property (as the land and tools, etc.) and Promises (as labor).

These commitments can be represented on the GNUrho currency

====Property Future
Property: 
Promise


voluntary specialization is

usually more efficient to produce in bulk

token passing is reduced






Inputs are the land, water, organisms, tools, etc. needed for production.







