Related: diary

Oct-27-2012:
Consumers pre-pay for products they predict they need.  This is like crowd-funding.

Some of these investors cross-commit promises-to-work-in-the-future instead of plain-old-money.  This is combines parts of crowd-sourcing with with scheduled time-banking.

Each co-owner must 'pay' their portion of operational costs as either work or as the Physical Sources that are not yet vertically-integrated.

Each co-owner receives their portion of the product after each round of production is complete.

This solves two separate time-delays that are the original basis of real money.


Oct-17-2012: 
Another way to view the worker side of economic imputation.

Some consumers will invest promises-to-pay-in-future-work instead of plain-old-money.

These special consumers are sometime called workers, but of course they are also consumers.

These workers must recieve co-ownership in the Means of Production for the Products they will consume, and do not necessarily need any ownership in the Means of Production which they happen to have skills to operate.  Property in this model is used to pre-allocate Products, not to prop-up wages and profits.

For example, a cow milker might sign a work-contract work in the dairy every day for a year.

If the salary for a cow milker in that part of the world is $X/year, then that promise will buy $X worth of the Means of Production


Oct-16-2012: Crowd Owned and Operated Production

This is a plan for scheduling Work and allocating Sources.

This model seeks maximum abundance and automation by aligning the roles of Worker, Consumer and Owner.

Timeline:

.) Attract Consumers to pre-pay for future Product by investing plain-old-money.
.) These funds are used to buy the Sources of production.
.) Each Consumer+Investor
.) The Sources are optionally placed under the custody of a non-profit to eliminate property taxes in some jurisdictions.
.) Workers pre-pay for future Product by Promising to install, operate, maintain, protect, etc. some Sources of production across some amount of Time.
.) Owners receive the Product as a side-effect of their owning the Sources of that Product.  For example, the owner of a bee-hive owns all the potential future honey *already* and obviously does not need to buy it from anyone else.  This can also be true for co-owners of a set of bee-hives.  They each own the same % of the honey as their % of co-ownership in the hives.

Glossary:
'Consumer' is a person who pays with plain-old-money instead of Promises.  Eventually this person will need to become a Worker or Dependent when the Production Arena is so Vertically Integrated that it doesn't need any more plain-old-money to buy Sources.

'Production Arena' is the minimum vertical integration of Sources and horizontal diversity of Workers needed to supply a Basic Outcome.

'Product' is some good or service such as an apple or a bus ride or cell-phone service, health insurance, etc.

'Sources' are the land, organisms, tools, water-rights, energy and other raw inputs required for the Production of some Product.

'Production' is turning Sources into Products by Workers across Time.

'Basic Outcome' is the food, housing/utilities, clothing, health-care, transportation, communication, etc. needed for a simple but respectable quality of life.

'Promise' is a legally binding contract to fulfill some future Work.


1.) Product is the Investor's Return.  This means Consumers will
micro-invest by pre-paying for results, become co-owners of that
business and receive the Product itself as a side-effect of that
ownership.

2.) Profit is the Payer's Investment.  This means late-coming
Consumers will overpay for Product as usual, but we will treat (at
least some % of) that value as though they had invested as described
in #1.

3.) Investments are commitments of Future Labor and Physical Sources.
This means we will issue a deposit-based, *insuring* currency backed
by both the land and tools and other inputs, plus the work needed to
transform those assets into a Product.

there is no need to use external tokens (such as Federal Reserve
Notes) or internal tokens (such as some community currency) to pay the
workers.


1.
One half of a GNUrho is the Means of Production
required to create the Product featured on the
front of the Title.  This gives you some % property
co-ownership in things like a dairy, and orchard,
a bee-hive, some cattle, etc.

2.
The other half is the (commitments of) Labor
required to create the Product featured on the
front of the Title.  This is a bit like a contract
that a skilled worker can sign as a promise
to work in the future.

Workers can choose to sign such contracts
for anyone willing to accept their expertise.

This commitment is treated as an investment.

Other ways to invest are commitments of
Land or Capital, or when you pay Profit within
the arena.


No matter how you invest within the arena,
the result is a Title representing a % of real
co-ownership in some Means of Production
somewhere within the arena, or commitment
from some other worker to supply the labor
needed to operate some Means of Production
you for which have co-ownership.

This gives us time to solve the usual problem
when barter Products known as the
"Simultaneous Coincidence of Wants", and so
eliminates the need to pass Tokens (eliminates
the need to use Money to buy Products or
pay Wages).


Together, these Physical Sources form the
legally-binding Title of ownership and the
contracts of future Work required to Insure
product will be created for you in the future.


The GNUrho can also be used as a currency.

http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/gnu-misc-discuss/2012-06/index.html

http://freenetworkfoundation.org/pipermail/discuss_freenetworkfoundation.org/2012-June/001436.html
http://freenetworkfoundation.org/pipermail/discuss_freenetworkfoundation.org/2012-June/001363.html



