Related: allocate, capital, EcoComics, game, kernel, profit, schedule, thesis

OpenEconomics.net >>

NewEconomicsInstitute.org >>The New Economics Institute is working to make the new economics, one which supports people and planet, mainstream in the USA. It is a partnership between the E. F. Schumacher Society, the predecessor of the Institute, and the New Economics Foundation from London. The US economic system is failing in its essential purpose: to provide fulfilling and healthy lives for all people while nurturing the social and natural systems on which the economic system depends.

NewEconomics.org >>economics as if people and the planet mattered.   nef (the new economics foundation) is an independent think-and-do tank that inspires and demonstrates real economic well-being.  We aim to improve quality of life by promoting innovative solutions that challenge mainstream thinking on economic, environment and social issues. We work in partnership and put people and the planet first.

Prout.org >>Prout is the acronym for Progressive Utilisation Theory.  It is a social and economic theory developed in 1959 by the late Indian scholar-author and activist Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar.  Mr. Sarkar sought a practical alternative to the theories of Marxism (communism) and Capitalism.  Prout is based on universal values recognizing and protecting the rights of all to the fulfillment of their basic needs; the protection of the environment, plants and animals; and a dynamic, incentive-based multi-tiered economy with local and cooperatively-employee-owned enterprises at it core.

JASecon.org >>JASecon is an informal grouping of folks active in the social justice and worker co-op communities.

www.IEW.UZH.ch/ztree >>z-Tree (Zurich Toolbox for Readymade Economic Experiments) is a software for experimental economics. This software package allows to develop and to carry out economic experiments. In this program features that are needed in most experiments are generally defined. Among them are the communication between the computers, data saving, time display, profit calculation and tools for screen layout. A further strength of the program lies in the versatility: It can be used for a wide range of possible experiments such as public good experiments, structured bargaining experiments or markets - including double auctions and Dutch auctions. Moreover, experiments can easily be composed and combined.

EconometricSociety.org >>The Econometric Society is an international society for the advancement of economic theory in its relation to statistics and mathematics.

EconPort.org >>Econport allows users to run many types of online economics experiments.

ArielRubinstein.tau.ac.il >>Game Theory

Levine.SSCNET.UCLA.edu (Economic and Game Theory) >>This site uses the tools of modern economics and game theory to explore how the interaction of intelligent goal-seeking individuals determines social outcomes.

ReThinkingEconomies.org.uk >>Chinese cockle pickers in Lancashire; energy price hikes in Europe after a quarrel between former Soviet states; markets in new reproductive technologies: these events make the news, but cause consternation and perplexity. Are these one-off incidents? Or, are they the tip of radical economic shifts profoundly affecting both our lives and world society? If so, how can we explain these underlying trends?

ISNIE.org >>The New Institutional Economics (NIE) is an interdisciplinary enterprise combining economics, law, organization theory, political science, sociology and anthropology to understand the institutions of social, political and commercial life. It borrows liberally from various social-science disciplines, but its primary language is economics. Its goal is to explain what institutions are, how they arise, what purposes they serve, how they change and how - if at all -- they should be reformed.

AcademicBlogs.org/wiki/index.php/Economics

univie.ac.at/virtuallabs >>VirtualLabs in evolutionary game theory

NBER.org >>Founded in 1920, the National Bureau of Economic Research is a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research organization dedicated to promoting a greater understanding of how the economy works. The NBER is committed to undertaking and disseminating unbiased economic research among public policymakers, business professionals, and the academic community.

EconomyInCrisis.org >>Creating Awareness Of Our True Economic Condition

GridEcon.eu >>GridEcon will provide an infrastructure that allows end-users not only to consume but also to sell services and resources on the Grid, therefore, creating a new economy in which all end-users can actively participate.

ConservationEconomy.net >>On this site, fifty-seven patterns provide a framework for an ecologically restorative, socially just, and reliably prosperous society. They are adaptable to local ecosystems and cultures, yet universal in their applicability. Together they form what we call a Conservation Economy.

RePEc.org >>RePEc (Research Papers in Economics) is a collaborative effort of hundreds of volunteers in 58 countries and 35 US states to enhance the dissemination of research in economics. The heart of the project is a decentralized database of working papers, journal articles and software components. All RePEc material is freely available.

IED.info FEE.org

Wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Economic_Forum

Econ.Utah.edu/~ehrbar >>The Economics of a Sick Society

SteadyState.org >>Welcome to the Center for the Advancement of the Steady State Economy (CASSE). CASSE is a non-profit, tax-exempt organization dedicated to advocating a sustainable economy with stabilized population and consumption.  This economy is called a "steady state economy".

PerfectEconomy.com >>PEOPLE For Mathematically Perfected Economy™
