Related: act, beer, liberty, GPL, power, source, sovereign, trade

==User Freedoms
Use   : READ:  invest, source, rent, tool, cost, pay, bank, insure
Modify: WRITE: change, consume, control, eat, maintain, own, vote
Copy  : EXEC:  access sources, create, extrude, print, output, produce
Share : FORK:  spawn, convey, flow, net, trade, sell, pay, cash, current, post, propagate, public


FOSSology.org >>Advancing open source analysis and development    Our mission is to build a community to facilitate the study of Free and Open Source Software by providing free data analysis tools.

Freedom-Force.org >>Freedom Force International is a network of men and women from all parts of the world who are concerned over loss of personal liberty and expansion of government power. They are not mere complainers. They have a plan to do something about it. They also share a common belief in The Creed of Freedom, which is a statement of principles that guide them in their mission to build a better world.

DigitalFreedom.org >>BILL OF SIGHTS AND SOUNDS
binaryFreedom.INFO >>Free as in Freedom and we really mean it!
FreeGPL.com >>Open Source For Enterprise
FreeCultureDay.org
FreeTheWorld.com promoting free object trading
FreeCoop.Org FreeRent.Org

FreedomDefined.org >>This document defines "Free Cultural Works" as works or expressions which can be freely studied, applied, copied and/or modified, by anyone, for any purpose. It also describes certain permissible restrictions that respect or protect these essential freedoms. The definition distinguishes between free works, and free licenses which can be used to legally protect the status of a free work. The definition itself is not a license; it is a tool to determine whether a work or license should be considered "free."


----
Re-mix of GNU.org/music/free-software-song.html

The Free Source Song
[To the melody of "Sadi Moma"]


Join us now and share the re-sources;
You'll be free, hackers, you'll be free.
x2


Hoarders may get piles of money,
That is true, hackers, that is true.
But they cannot help their neighbors;
That's not good, hackers, that's not good.

When we have enough free sources
At our call, hackers, at our call,
We'll throw out those dirty allegiances
Ever more, hackers, ever more.

Join us now and share the sources
You'll be free, hackers, you'll be free.
x2


Melody of Sadi Moma, a Bulgarian dance tune.
(Dash means previous note continues; there are seven beats per measure.)

D-CB-A- B-CBAG- G--A--B C--B-BD A--A--- CDCB---
D-CB-A- B-CBAG- G--A--B C--B-BD A--A--- A------
