Commoning.com/wiki/Interest_List

==Definition
An "Interest List" advertises the many Objectives a Network of Groups hopes to achieve.


==Types
* Some Objectives are for individuals: "Fix my tooth." or "Install a kitchen floor."

* Some Objectives are like two-way Insurance: "Promise to be my Dentist when I need it, and I will pay(see below) you now - so both our needs are being met."

* Some Objectives are for Groups: "Bear the Costs of Co-Owning this Dentist office to receive treatment." or "Support this Orchard together, and we get all the output at Cost." or "Own a bus with us and we'll make rides cheap."


==Funding
Payments can be made in these ways:

1.) Contract to apply Skills "for some time or for some goal" to a Group in the Network needing those Skills.

2.) Transfer ownership of Physical Sources, such as Land or Tools, to a Group in the Network needing those Physical Sources.

3.) 'Regular' debt-based currency which will be used to buy Physical Sources, or, in rare cases, to hire Skilled Workers.


After some minimum amount of Interest is shown, the Group then asks for Commitment.

If Commitment level for both Physical Sources and Human Skill are at or above the minimum required, we must then examine the Committed Subnet, and recursively, their Committed Subnets.

Once this has been verified for any Subnet, the Financial transactions are drawn in legal form, and the Subnet becomes 'Invested'. Production begins.


==Deeds
At that moment, each Group in the Subnet issues 'Deeds' which are used to track ownership and to show the projected returns as goods or services. These projections must be limited by the opinions of the Committed Subnet as to whether that Group can achieve those goals.

A Deed is a projected quantity and quality of a specific Objective within some "Window of Time" - usually in the future.

A Deed is simultaneously "backed by":

1.) A title of ownership over some % of Physical Sources Co-Owned by all those with that objective, and that are in operational order.

2.) A collection of "Work Bonds" representing the Promises to Pay made by workers somewhere in the Network. These commitment may or may not be 'insured' by Skill Guarantors who make certain that future work is accomplished.

If either of these is missing or cannot be used, the Deed becomes 'invalid' because Production has stopped.

Another way to think of Deeds is to break them up into smaller pieces that are usable one-at-a-time.

Bus Tickets, Theater Tickets, Rent Tokens, Ride Coupon, Breakfast Coin.

Even just a sign-up sheet that records how-much you have already used this resource - which effects how much you must 'pay' to out-bid someone who has had so many fewer chances. This is a complicated problem that I don't know all the parts yet.


==Growth
Growth tactics include offering "middle to upper income" people a chance to invest in their own health while saving money by Pre-Paying for Goods and Services offered by the Network.

These Investors are paid in Product.

Profit must be treated as Payer Commitment and Invested by the Group (or would it be the Subnet?) on behalf of that Payer, with Payer receiving a Deed of that same type(?) - this sounds slightly wrong ...


==Maintenance
Groups of Co-Owners for any divisible Physical Sources must decide how much to 'spend' on those Costs.

Any subgroup with sufficient Co-Ownership must be allowed to 'fork' the divisible Physical Sources.

This is the "Maximum Consensus within the Realistic Divisibility of those Physical Sources for this one Descision."

In this way a Group can determine what it demands from itself as a whole.

I think the % each Group member must pay is exactly the same as his % of Co-Ownership in that particular indivisible Group, but this may be wrong.

If I own 13% of a milk cow, then I get 13% of the milk, have 13% vote in what the cow eats, and must pay 13% of the recurring costs.

If I only own 2% of a roto-tiller, I will only have 2% of vote, can only use it 2% of the time*, and must pay only 2% of the recurring Costs.

(*) Members 'rent' things from the Group by returning receipts that were issued by the Group at the time of initial investment, and usually reissued each round-of-production according to current holdings and Costs paid. If you run-out of such receipts, obviously you didn't invest enough. Often other group-members will 'sell' theirs to you, and can even charge Price above Cost, but must treat all such Profit as that payer's investment in more Physical Sources.


When the better system is finally running, we will want to be able to commit very small amounts of effort to many different objectives, and will want such investments to "degrade gracefully".

If we accidentally or purposefully abandon them by failing to pay Costs, the Group would automatically "sell-off" enough of your ownership to cover Costs for each round-of-production, tapering off until you have no ownership in that field to match your lack of interest.
