Related: Property Left, VIPM

The Intra-Owner Trade Agreement (IOTA) is a Deposit-Based, *Insuring* currency representing a predicted quantity and quality of PRODUCT.


This legal document has 3 distict sections:

1. A PRODUCT of some predicted type and quantity and quality.

2. Commitments of the SOURCES such as land, mineral/water rights,
buildings, tools, etc. required for production.

3. Commitments of all the SKILLS required for production.


For example:
0. One dozen grade A, medium chicken eggs every week.

1. Co-ownership in land and tools etc. of a chicken farm and to grow feed.

2. Contractural from all the people required to make it happen.


==Internal Governance
The IOTA enforces the following constraints on Trade:

A: Product is Investor's Return: The Product is not sold*,
   because each Villager already owns the exact** amount
   of Product from their ownership in Sources.
* Surplus can be sold to those who own insufficient Sources.
** Predictions are never exact, but we can 'hover' nearby.
  Most Villagers will 'overcommit' as Insurance against low
  production seasons.


B: Profit is Payer Investment: When Surplus is sold to non-
   owners, the Profit must be treated as an Investment from
   that Payer - so that latecomers gain as much control as
   they are willing to Pay, and ultimately Work for.



==Sharing Sources
Products are preallocated when the users of output are the co-owner of inputs.

When input co-owners are output users, the owner need not change.
Each %-owner of a cow does not buy milk, but owns that % already.


==Swapping Skills
When a worker commits to labor in the future

We can specialize without passing tokens and without resorting to barter.

This is only for the subset of outputs 



 (promises to Work in the future) – so that I can achieve goals for others in the VIPM in return for their commitments to Work toward my personal goals (I’ll shovel shit and plant trees in return for commitments from Dentists, Mechanics, etc. to work for me when needed) – instead of passing tokens *late*.


This insures any Product as much as the Skills and Sources can be secured.



Selling surplus to non-owners will usually cause profit from  be treated as that Payer’s Investment in more Sources.

----
* Investors COMMIT Sources or Skills.
* Each Investor is a %-owner in the Sources according to the amount the did COMMIT.
* 
Product is the Investors’ Return.
* Profit collected during the sale of surplus is handled as that payer’s investment.
