Related: plot, wiki

FreePlane.sf.net >>Application for Mind Mapping, Knowledge Management, Project Management. It is a redesigned version of well known FreeMind created by one of its key developers.

VLCMM.sf.net >>We introduce a completely visual representation based on typed Mind Maps to represent steps of calculation for a pure untyped lambda calculator, VLM.

Live.Gnome.org/Dia and Dia-Installer.sf.net >>Dia is roughly inspired by the commercial Windows program 'Visio', though more geared towards informal diagrams for casual use. It can be used to draw many different kinds of diagrams. It currently has special objects to help draw entity relationship diagrams, UML diagrams, flowcharts, network diagrams, and many other diagrams. It is also possible to add support for new shapes by writing simple XML files, using a subset of SVG to draw the shape.

DeepaMehta.de >>DeepaMehta is a software platform for Knowledge Management. Knowledge is represented in a semantic network and is handled collaboratively. DeepaMehta combines interdisciplinary research with the idea of Open Source to generate a true benefit for workflow as well as for social processes. At the same time Deepa Mehta is an indian movie director.

XMind.net >>Want to share ideas? The world's coolest brainstorming and mind mapping software has now joined the open source community.

VYM.sf.net >>VYM (View Your Mind) is a tool to generate and manipulate maps which show your thoughts. Such maps can help you to improve your creativity and effectivity. You can use them for time management, to organize tasks, to get an overview over complex contexts, to sort your ideas etc.

VUE.Tufts.edu >>The Visual Understanding Environment (VUE) is an Open Source project based at Tufts University. The VUE project is focused on creating flexible tools for managing and integrating digital resources in support of teaching, learning and research. VUE provides a flexible visual environment for structuring, presenting, and sharing digital information.

FreeMind.sf.net >>FreeMind is a premier free mind-mapping (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_map) software written in Java. The recent development has hopefully turned it into high productivity tool. We are proud that the operation and navigation of FreeMind is faster than that of MindManager because of one-click "fold / unfold" and "follow link" operations.
