Related: borrow, currency, free, fair, gift, mark, money, rent, shar, WTO

CMB.sf.net >> "Circular Multilateral Barter" (CMB) is free server-side software for managing peer-to-peer networks for circular barter exchange.

UpsidedownWorld.org

FightingFTAs.org >>Welcome to the online version of "Fighting FTAs: the growing resistance to bilateral free trade and investment agreements", a collaborative publication released by bilaterals.org, BIOTHAI and GRAIN in February 2008. "Fighting FTAs" provides a big picture of what today's frenzy over free trade agreements (FTAs) means, and an insight into some of the struggles being waged by social movements fighting back.

bilaterals.org >>is a collective effort to share information and stimulate cooperation against bilateral trade and investment agreements that are opening countries to the deepest forms of penetration by transnational corporations


Trading labor instead of objects would be more efficient if access to capital were not stifled by profit.

It's not that trade shouldn't be free, it's that productive sources are hoarded to collect usury.

Fair Trade sounds nice, but is it really?  What of the minimum wage and Labor Unions?  Would your goal on an island be the protection of work (the continuation of toil), or would it be to minimize that cost?

If the difference between an object consumer's price and the cost incurred by the source owners during the previous round of production was understood to be an investment from that consumer, then profit would be both real growth and a continuous distribution of control.

As object consumers become source owners, the dangerous insanity of artifical scarcity and the absurd ideal of never-ending employment can be safely reversed to reorient ourselves with the natural course of abundance and leisure.

Workers would be hired to create permanent solutions, and currency would be designed to ease specialization.


"'Here are two simple principles, both of which are self-evident:  I. -- That all men have equal rights to the use and enjoyment of the elements provided by Nature.  II. -- That each man has an exclusive right to the use and enjoyment of what is produced by his own labor'" -- "Protection or Free Trade" p. 280 Henry George

I disagree with part II of this quote because it appears to be the common description of Capital that gives Capitalists a moral claim to keep consumers in perpetual dependence.


Nature is cyclic.  All things are the Product of all the previous states of that matter plus all actions applied to it by Nature and Humans up to that time.

Capital is said to be anything that is not land and is sometimes called "stored Labor" because it is land that has been changed by labor.  Capital might also be thought of an 'instance' of land.

Products are the output of labor applied to land and capital.  Capital is also said to be the transformation of land and capital by labor.  This means capital is simply land transformed.

All things are an object (output of production) at one time, and the source of production at some another time.


Casts.seul.org "'Designing a parallel trading system'"

IPFrontline.com/depts/article.asp?id=10139&deptid=6
"'Negotiators Adopt Singapore Treaty

Wednesday, March 29, 2006
by: WIPO Press Release

A new international treaty on trademarks, to be known as the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks in recognition of the country that hosted the final round of negotiations, was adopted on March 28, 2006 by member states of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). The new treaty concludes efforts by WIPO's member states to update the 1994 Trademark Law Treaty (TLT) and bring it in line with the technological developments of the past decade.
'"
