Related: CM, ERP, wage

YAWLFoundation.org >>Yet Another Workflow Language

GNUHerds.org >>GNU Herds is a not-for-profit true-democratic association which aims to assist and encourage people in their paid work as Free Software authors, getting the highest levels of competence and efficiency.

CoWorking.info >>Coworking is a movement to create a community of cafe-like collaboration spaces for developers, writers and independents.

WorkNets.org >>What is a WorkNet? WorkNets are a way to work that organizes us around independent thinkers. We turn our attention to those who think deeply and are too often marginalized for that! We're all invited to pursue our various projects, encourage each other to grow as leaders, and work towards a culture of independent thinkers. WorkNets are organized by AndriusKulikauskas and the MinciuSodas laboratory.

Work we will minimize when the farm is our own.
Labor is a cost in achieving what we want done.

It is a barrier to the goal of physical salvation.
Efficiency reduces employment and increases production.

When object users control the sources of their plans,
Toiling will be understood as a barrier to freedom.

Owner profit increases with user dependence.
It's not that we need jobs, we need solutions!

A lone human wants life to be easy and free,
He wants fixes to be final and complete.

Alone on an island it is clear work is an enemy.
We *want* problems solved so we can go swing in the trees!

Everyone would like to be finally "set up",
But we've been sold the idea it must be on someone else's back.

If another human arrives, would they force you to change?
If they want half of the land, must you release?

What if they want even more?  What if they say:
"You *must* also share some of your half in a collective way."

But then, on the other hand, what if you said:
"You may buy what you can afford, and rent until then."

"I was here first, so you work for me."
"We'll even start a Make Work Program to keep you busy."

There appears but two choices: socialism or profit.
But wait, there is more.  Nash found an equilibrium.

Every organism is employed in meeting their needs.
Even fungus needs rotting nutrition to mycoremediate.

Employment is fair when sources are Free.
But they must be locked open, else usury!
