see also: food/drugs, health, NWO

Codex Alimentarius CODEXINFO.org is another NWO terrorist organization meant to remove our organic sovereignty.

CodexAlimentarius.net

From the WHO pigs themselves: WHO.int/foodsafety/codex/en

CAFTA enforces Codex compliance.

RedFlagsDaily.com/forums/codex.html


"'CODEX ALIMENTARIUS

LETTER FROM RIMA E. LAIBOW, MD

CODEX ALIMENTARIUS (Latin for "Food Rules")

This affects the whole world - UK, Europe, USA, Australia ...some of the clauses are Worldwide! You will see that it especially talks about natural herbs and what the intentions are regarding them.......

Let me ask you if you know anyone who has actually read all 15,000+ pages of the working documents of the Codex Alimentarius Commission? Well, I have. As such, allow me to attempt to put an end to any confusion you may have about Codex Alimentarius by sharing what I have learned and what I believe to be a reasonable and appropriate level of concern.
Following is a summary of what Dr. Laibow found in reading all 15,000+ pages.

The World Trade Association (WTO) is very close to taking away our right to buy, sell or use almost all nutritional supplements. In addition, the ability of physicians to legally practice environmental or natural medicine and the rights of patients to chose these treatments are about to be criminalized here in the United States.

Currently in the U.S. nutrients are classified as foods [under the 1994 Dietary Supplements Health and Education Act (DSHEA)] and any substance not explicitly forbidden is permitted as a nutrient. Under CODEX, any substance not explicitly permitted by CODEX policy is banned as a nutrient. The CODEX preamble specifies that supplements and nutrients "may not be used to prevent, treat or cure any disorder."

Natural health options will become illegal if either of the following occurs:

1) the United States is "harmonized" with the WTO this spring while compliance with CODEX is still "voluntary"

2) total compliance becomes mandatory, as it will be after the next CODEX Commission meeting in Rome July 4-9, 2005.

Once CODEX is implemented, either through "harmonization" or mandatory compliance, we will be forced to follow the European CODEX model in which it will be illegal to manufacture, buy, sell, recommend, or use any but 28 ultra-low dose nutrients whether you are a consumer or a licensed health professional. Only synthetic versions of that short list will be allowed and natural supplements, herbs, enzymes and other non-pharmaceutical treatments will be banned. The only legal health option left will be the pharmaceutical one.

CODEX regulations have been "harmonized" (i.e., approved) in the EU, Canada and Australia. The United States is next unless we act decisively and act now.

On August 1, 2005, 75 percent of the natural substances currently available in health food stores and pharmacies in Europe will become illegal as a direct result of CODEX.

Once implemented, CODEX ALIMENTARIUS does the following:

VITAMINS, MINERAL, NUTRIENTS AND PHYSIOLOGICALLY ACTIVE SUBSTANCES

The European Supplements Directive is the model administrative agency for CODEX and permits a total of 28 ultra-low dose nutrients. All other nutrients-for example, alpha lipoic acid, CoQ10, fish oil, and curcumin-are banned. Vitamin C, for example, at any dosage higher than 200 mg per day will be illegal. CoQ10 will be totally forbidden at any dose.

Only synthetic forms of permitted nutrients will be available. All natural versions will be illegal substances. Only synthetic nutrients (at ultra-low dosages) manufactured by pharmaceutical companies will meet the molecular standards for use in humans or animals.

HERBS AND HERBAL TREATMENTS

The European Supplements Directive has produced a very short list of herbs which may be used and the conditions for which they may be used (another short and very trivial list).

All other applications of herbs and any other herbs besides those listed are strictly forbidden.

TRADITIONAL HEALING ARTS

CODEX stipulates which conditions may be treated using herbs and allows only minor, self-limited conditions. Treating any other conditions with herbal remedies will constitute a crime.

Ayurvedic, Tibetan, tribal and other traditional medicines which use herbs and natural substances will be forbidden world-wide.

Herbal, shamanic, energy based (e.g., Reiki and acupuncture) medicine are forbidden forms of treatment

GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS (GMOs)

CODEX makes the un-labeled use of GMOs legal in all foods under all circumstances.

Farmers in Iraq, for example, must purchase their seeds from Monsanto and are forbidden from retaining seed crops under the new Iraqi constitution. Similar laws exist in other places.

TOXIC RESIDUES

CODEX sets permissible upper limits for pesticide residues, toxic chemicals, hormones in food and other environmental contaminants that are many times higher than levels advocated by chemical and pesticide industry lobbying groups.

ANTIBIOTICS, GROWTH STIMULANTS AND OTHER HORMONES IN FOOD ANIMALS

CODEX mandates that all animal feed must be treated with antibiotics, hormones and growth stimulants world wide.

Organic, free range and biodynamic farming will become illegal.

IRRADIATION OF FOOD:

CODEX mandates irradiation of food under circumstances now hotly contested by food safety advocates.

The standards which comprise CODEX are virtually complete: final ratification of the entire package is expected at the Codex Alimentarius Committee meeting in Rome July 4-9, 2005.

'" -- forums.lycaeum.org/cgi-bin/ultimatebb.cgi?ubb=get_topic&f=8&t=001267



"'On March 16, the Codex Committee on Food Additives and Contaminants (CCFAC), which advises the Codex Alimentarius ("Food Code") Commission, approved a proposal that would remove virtually every assurance that irradiated food will be of good quality, be handled by trained workers, or be processed under safe and clean conditions in government-inspected facilities.'" -- www.afsc.org/pwork/0105/010511.htm

