Cooporatism is a rewrite of Communityism.


Why The GPL Is Bad For The Economy, Communityism rough draft.


Communityism is a get rich slow investment strategy and holistic approach to success.

Purchase and propogate organisms to supply the raw materials of our needs.

Purchase and build equipment to plant, harvest, extract and process the material into solutions.

Reclaim, repair, reverse, reuse, reassemble, recycle all simple and complex resources.


Let's purchase and then lock open gates, land, tools, permaculture, intellectual property, source code, designs, music, media, art, in a get rich slow investment scheme built on the principles of Swadeshi and bridled capitalism enforced through local property laws and the Sovereign Resource License.


Consumers drive innovation and production by requesting solutions.

Workers contract with consumers before work is started.

Investors purchase finite resources such as land and water, and capital resources such as tools and permaculture.


All resources at cost:
    free: organism genetics, 
    rent or lease of some finite resources (land, water)
    rental of tool 
    resources consumed: Raw material for most needs through permaculture and recycling.
    labor cost is always a private agreement between the laborer and the consumer.


These owners rent the resources to qualified workers under the Sovereign Resource License.

Skilled artisans eventually become the only interesting people

_all_ profit,

The owner/state receives rent/tax


payment only until the original investment is reclaimed plus any interest rate needed to keep the operation non-profit but solvent.

Rent is based on holding, not on performance


We may need to write a more "contractual" agreement if a "license" is not enough to control future actions of the owner.


After reimbursement is completed twice (thereby giving 100% insurance coverage), the rent is further reduced to operational costs (wear/tear/parts, lubricants/fluids, etc.).

At this point the owner has no more rights over the resource than any other human.  Since "the community" except for his ability to operate the machine without 


 might choose to sign ownership over to a trusted organization to pool resources

Access restrictions:
Certification and usage requirements to avoid misuse and mess.
Rent is based on holding, not on performance.


Some resource will be long-term rented/leased under conditions permitting the renter lock it closed for shelter and privacy.

Since all the property is locked open, the consumer may always supply his own labor if qualified.


Use adhoc engineering and off-the-shelf parts to pioneer sustainable solutions.
Non-profit insurance and health care.

This increases access, protects labor, promotes cooperation and allows permanent solutions.

Finite resources or capital such as land, tools, raw material etc. are rented or leased to entrepreneurs under the Sovereign Resource License.

The workers receive the entire income derived from their labor, but most finite resources and some of the capital is locked open to the community.

Access is limited by rules such as:
    Operators License/Certification/Qualification:  Hire instructor if neccessary to achieve a certain level of competence when operating dangerous machinery.
    Hoarding must be limited in whatever way:  A citizen may not rent equipment in a leveraging way against the consumer.
    A consumer must always have ultimate access:  I must always be allowed to do my own work if found competent.
    Competence must be designated in a fair and balanced manner:  Techniques to determine fitness of performance are meant to protect citizens and machinery from destruction and abuse.

Qualified workers raise, process and sell organism products in small packages to rich, vanity driven consumers.  The workers receive 100% of the profit minus the SRL bridled rent.







====Problems:
The vultures may drain our wealth if located within the jurisdiction of a typical improvement punishing property tax district.

1: These are non-profit organizations, so maybe they are exempt?

2: Try to use less money and more barter to appear less wealthy.

3: Try to make the initial land purchase large enough (probably a 'county') that there we _are_ the property tax district.

Housing rent is a simultaneous drain.  Solution: Long term lease of housing lots under the same terms.  Now we can make a beautiful community without being penalized!


====Examples:
As advertised: 1640 acres in northern California desert for US$200,000.

An investor would purchase this land and retain ownership.  Land, tools and material are rented to workers in a manner meant to maximize 

Venture Communityism is an investment strategy enforcing Georgist economic strategy through the Sovereign Resource License.  This increases access, protects labor, promotes cooperation and allows permanent solutions.


The return on investment is therfore tied to rent instead of performance - freeing labor to reap their full reward.  Just as with this prevents hoarding and promotes improvement.




====Slogans:
Social security.
An economic sleight of hand.
Autarchy instead of Anarchy.
Abundance in the New World Order.
Highest standard of living at lowest economic cost.
Power to the people.
Own or be owned.
Eat more plants.  Plant more eats.
Grow your own to stop the wars.
No Latifundi.
Stop the unwitting support of terror.
Assulting fascism.
Security despite the government.
Bridled Capitalism.
Constructive fascism.




non-needs:
employment
artificial scarcity
Globalization/Free Trade
Immigration
Outsourcing
Corporatism

links


credits:
Swaraj through Swadeshi: Bal Tilak & Mahatma Ghandi
LOCK OPEN some resources: Henry George & Richard Stallman


links:
www.sourceopen.org
www.demotech.org
www.ecotecture.com
www.selfhelpcorp.com
www.communitiesbychoice.org
www.agroecology.org
web.media.mit.edu/~nitin/
www.abundance-ecovillage.com
www.iceclt.org/clt
www.walden3.org
www.okeonux.org
open.coop
www.permakultur.net
www.shelter.org
www.sustainable.org
