plants are "selbstentfaltung" == "selfunfolding"?


So we were living on the open plain.

We designed a thermally stable shelter.
Locally grown straw bale construction on the north side to keep out the winter chill and ambient summer heat.
Glass and pivoting external mirrors to bring in heat during sunny winter days while reflecting heat out during summer.  Internal heat 'sinks' store the heat for release during the night.

The computer controlled mirrors were used daily to: heat water, distill water, cook food, dry clothes, dry food, distill ethanol, etc.  The community was built in a circular pattern - with the center being a community owned property.  At the very center of each community a tower held a mirror/lens which reflected the solar energy from all community mirrors at scheduled intervals.  This enormous energy was enough to melt metals and glass.

We grew our food, drugs, cloth and the vegetable parts of our shelter and home supplies (containers, soaps/detergents, cosmetics, carpeting, etc.) in concentrated bunches around the living and working quarters.  The humidity sensor irrigation system allowed us to use very little water, most of which was gathered from rooftops into cisterns.

High quality fertlizer from rich compost was effortlessly created by dumping vegetable kitchen waste from a sink-side chute onto the slowly digesting external buried composting toilet receptacle.  Shredded yard waste and paper were added from an outside access.  A low power electric motor kept the sludge mixed to ensure its health.

Our gardening and shop equipment had interchangable heads to allow the reuse of the power supply.  A 10hp power supply/ back end connected to a lawn mower, sod cutter, roto tiller, sump pump, shredder, blower, vacuum, 


Trays of dirty dishes are loaded from dining counter side.  Clean trays.  Optional cabinet slots can accept unloaded, cleaned trays into storage.

There was plenty land, food and water


comparing IP to real estate:
	Most licenses/contracts lock the gate closed.
	Public Domain leaves the gate swinging open.
	The GPL locks the gate open.
	Personal real estate ownership can ensure personal sovereignty.

Suboptimal matter duplicator:
	Requires water.
	Solar powered.
	Currently mostly Public Domain.
	Large footprint.
	Slow.  Some things as quick 2 months.  Others up to 10 years.
	Can be portable.
	Can be discrete/attractive.
	Can be nearly automated.
	Can be temporarily located on another's real estate to boot-strap the society.
	Requires real estate ownership for full personal sovereignty.

Gifts - the Achilles heel of artificial scarcity.
Personal Sovereignty

Solving problems often destroys jobs.
Some gifts solve problems.
Some gifts destroy jobs.



Globalization is simply extended capitalism.


Capitalism adherents purposfully avoids solving problems since solving problems may destroy jobs and/or potential revenue.


	For example: My 67 year old father works with 8 other persons pushing shopping carts for Walmart (seriously).  Over Thanksgiving he described a machine he wants to make which would simplify his job tremendously.  He estimates it would increase productivity by at least double.  But his gift would cause unemployment for at least half of his coworkers since they would no longer be needed!


Manufacturing output has continued to increase throughout the world even though the number of manufacturing jobs have actually fallen.  This is because of an increase in automation and other optimizations.  Even "Made in China" products take fewer workers than in the past.

Fewer persons employeed means fewer persons with enough.

But wait a minute.  Wouldn't the most advanced civilization have all problems automated away?  Yipes!  If we continue to use blind capitalism, all our problems will be solved, but with no employment everyone will starve.



Personal sovereignty requires private property and is vital to the sustainability of any citizen.

Misery is a story about personal sovereignty.  In the story, the lead character is immobilized by a nurse who intends to keep him under control.  Similarly, most of the worlds population lives 

Artificial Scarcity (AS) is an ingenious approach to generating revenue.

Corporations such as Bechtel create artificial scarcity of water through water privatization.  Water privatization is a horrifying reality in parts of Africa now.  People die when those holding the keys increase the price.

Artificial scarcity is used by corporations such as Monsanto to keep farmers from growing some plants.

DeBeers artificially scarcifies diamonds by buying up all the mines while keeping the bulk of the diamonds locked up.

Many software vendors use AS to collect money from the populous long after the work to create the product is completed.

IP law grants citizens the power to control the thoughts and actions of others - even if the imprisoned concepts are discovered independently.

Corporations purchase IP legislation from all levels of government in an effort to generate revenue through artificial scarcity.



This plot against humanity is sold as physical property ownership is so important.



The Public Domain is an unprotected plot of Intellectual Property.


The GNU Public License starts:

"
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
"

Of course most Intellectual Property licenses/contracts have similar goals based on artificial scarcity.


The goals of the GPL appear to be truly unique in 


"' Free software is a matter of freedom: people should be free to use software in all the ways that are socially useful. Software differs from material objects--such as chairs, sandwiches, and gasoline--in that it can be copied and changed much more easily. These possibilities make software as useful as it is; we believe software users should be able to make use of them.'" -- www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html



