Myc
"'
Commodity 	Friends 	Note 	Enemies 	Note

Asparagus 	Parsley, Basil, Tomatoes 	Parsley and Basil Enhance flavor. Tomatoes Drive off spotted Asparagus beetle. (Not the Striped) 	Onions, Garlic, Gladiolus 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Beans, Bush 	Beets, Carrots, Cabbage, Celery, Celeriac, Strawberries, Petunia 	Grow well with Bush Beans 	Onions, Peas, Gladiolus, Fennel 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Beans, Pole 	Cucumbers, Radish, Corn. 	Grow well with Pole Beans. Modern Corn varieties are not strong enough to allow pole beans to grow up there stalks. 	Onions, Peas, Beets, Cabage. 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Beets 	Bush Beans, Cabbage, Lettuce, Onions, Kohlrabi, Lima Beans 	Grow well with Beets 	Pole Beans 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Cabbage 	Bush Beans, Beets, Carrots, Lettuce, Spinach, Onions, Cucumbers, Potatoes, Celery, Dill, Sage, Mints, Tomatoes??? 	Grow well with Cabbage. Dill Repels Cabbage Looper. Sage repels Cabbage butterfly. Caution:Mints will spread quickly and are hard to remove. Tomatoes repel Diamond Back Moth, but reduce cabbage yields 	Pole Beans, Strawberries 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields. Do not rotate with Cabbage as the Cabbage Root Maggot and the Radish Borer are the same bug.

Carrot 	Beans, Radish, Tomato, Onion, Sage 	Grow well with Carrot. Onion and Sage repel Carrot Rust Fly. 	Dill, Celery 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Celery 	Cabbage, Leeks, Tomatoes, Bush Beans, Nasturtiums 	Grow well with Celery. Nasturtiums repel Bugs. 	Carrots 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Corn 	Beans, Peas, Cucumbers, Cantaloupes, Squash, Cabbage, Parsley, Pumpkin 	Grow well with Corn. Modern Corn varieties are not strong enough to allow Bole Beans to grow up there stalks. 	Haven't found any. 	

Cucumbers 	Corn, Tomatoes, Cabbage, Lettuce, Radishes, Dill, Nashturtiums. 	Grow well with Cucumbers. Chinese lanterns are a trap crop for Cucumber Beetles. Caution:Chinese lanterns will spread quickly and are hard to remove. Nasturtiums repel Cucumber Beetles. 	Aromatic herbs, Potatoes. 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Dill 	Cabbage 	Grow well with Dill. 	Carrot, Tomato. 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Lettuce 	Beets, Carrots, Radish, Strawberries, Onion, Basil, Cucumber. 	Grow well with Lettuce. Onions Repel some Bugs. 	Haven't found any. 	

Lima Beans 	Beets, Radishes 	Grow well with Lima beans. 	Haven't found any. 	

Muskmelon 	Corn 	Grows well with muskmelon. 	Haven't found any. 	

Onion Family
Includes:Garlic, Onion, Elephant Garlic, Potato Onion. 	Tomatoes, Broccoli, Peppers, Lettuce, Cabbage, Carrots, Strawberries, 	Grow well with Onions. 	Beans, Peas, Asparagus, Gladiolus 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Parsley 	Asparagus, Tomatoes, Corn 	Grow well with Parsley. 	Haven't found any. 	

Peanut 	Peanuts seem to like to be alone. 			

Peas 	Radish, Carrots, Cucumbers, Celery 	Grow well with Peas. 	Onion Family, Gladiolus, Beans. 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Peppers 	Tomatoes, Onions, Carrot. 	Grow well with Peppers. 	Haven't found any. 	

Potatoes 	Cabbage, Watermelon, Eggplant, Beans??? 	Grow well with Potatoes. Beans Repel Colorado Potato Beetles but reduce yields. Tansy Repels Colorado Potato Beetles. Eggplant is a trap crop for Colorado Potato Beetles. Chickens let loose in spring and fall eat all kinds of bugs. Caution:Tansy will spread quickly and is hard to remove. 	Pumpkin, Squash family, Cucumbers, Tomatoes, Raspberries. 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Pumpkin 	Corn, Eggplant, Radish. 	Grow well with Pumpkin. 	Potatoes 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.
Radish 	Peas, Pole beans, Lettuce, Cucumbers, Carrots, Lima Beans. 	Grow well with Radishes. 	Haven't found any. 	Do not rotate with Cabbage as the Cabbage Root Maggot and the Radish Borer are the same bug.
Squash 	Corn, Nasturtiums 	Grow well with Squash. 	Potatoes 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.

Strawberries
good: Lettuce, Beans, Onions
bad: Cabbage: Roots release harmful substance which reduces yields.

Sweet Potatoes 	Haven't found any. 	. 	Haven't found any. 	

Tomatoes
good: Asparagus, Celery, Onion family, Carrots, Cucumbers, Parsley, Mint, Nasturtiums. 	Grow well with Tomatoes. Caution:mint will spread quickly and is hard to remove.
bad: Potatoes 	Roots release harmful substance. They reduce yields.
Watermelon 	Potatoes 	Grow well with Watermelon. 	Haven't found any. 	

Borage  	Pumpkins, squash, cucumbers and a variety of plants.  	Squash Bug and other insect control. Note, a disadvantage is they spread "everywhere".

Basil 	Peppers, Tomatoes,Marigold 	Keeps flies and mosquitos away

Garlic 	Roses, tomatoes and a wide variety of flowers and vegetables. 	Wards off aphids and other insects and pests.

Mint 	Cabbage and Broccoli 	Deters Cabbage moths

Marigold 	A wide variety of flowers and vegetables. 	Wards off insects. They are also used in Organic Insect sprays.

Nasturtium 	Pumpkins, Squash, and a wide variety of vegetables. 	Deters Cucumber Beetles, Squash Bugs,Aphids, and more. And, they are edible!

Rosemary 	Cabbage and Broccoli 	Deters Cabbage moths

Sage 	Carrots 	Wards off Carrot Fly

Thyme 	Cabbage 	Deters cabbage worm

----------------------------------------------------------------

Beans 	Rosemary, Peas, cucumbers, Radishes 	Onions
Carrots 	Chives, Rosemary, Sage, Radishes, Lettuce 	Dill
Chives 	Carrots 	 
Cucumbers 	Beans, Carrots, Onions, Radishs 	no strong herbs
Dill 	Lettuce, Cucumbers 	Carrots
Lettuce 	Beans, Carrots, Cucumbers, Onions, Radishes 	 
Marjoram 	good to all vegetables 	 
Marigolds 	plant throughout the garden 	 
Nasturtium 	Cucumbers, Tomatoes 	 
Oregano 	good to all vegetables 	 
Peas 	Lettuce, Beans, Carrots, Radish 	Onions
Petunia 	Beans 	 
Rosemary 	Beans, Carrots 	 
Roses 	Garlic, 	 
Sage 	Carrots, Peas, Beans 	Cucumbers
Tomatoes 	Basil, Carrots 	Corn, Fennel

----------------------------------------------------------------

Asparagus  	Tomato, Parsley, Basil  	 
Beans 	Most Vegetables & Herbs 	 
Beans, Bush 	Irish Potato, Cucumber, Corn, Strawberry, Celery, Summer Savory 	Onion
Beans, Pole 	Corn, Summer Savory, Radish 	Onion, Beets, Kohlrabi, Sunflower
Cabbage Family 	Aromatic Herbs, Celery, Beets, Onion Family, Chamomile, Spinach, Chard 	Dill, Strawberries, Pole Beans, Tomato
Carrots 	English Pea, Lettuce, Rosemary, Onion Family, Sage, Tomato 	Dill
Celery 	Onion & Cabbage Families, Tomato, Bush Beans, Nasturtium 	 
Corn 	Irish Potato, Beans, English Pea, Pumpkin, Cucumber, Squash 	Tomato
Cucumber 	Beans, Corn, English Pea, Sunflowers, Radish 	Irish Potato, Aromatic Herbs
Eggplant 	Beans, Marigold 	 
Lettuce 	Carrot, Radish, Strawberry, Cucumber 	

 
Onion Family 	Beets, Carrot, Lettuce, Cabbage Family, Summer Savory 	Beans, English Peas
Parsley 	Tomato, Asparagus 	 
Pea, English 	Carrots, Radish, Turnip, Cucumber, Corn, Beans 	Onion Family, Gladiolus, Irish Potato
Potato, Irish 	Beans, Corn, Cabbage Family, Marigolds, Horseradish 	Pumpkin, Squash, Tomato, Cucumber, Sunflower
Pumpkins 	Corn, Marigold 	Irish Potato
Radish 	English Pea, Nasturtium, Lettuce, Cucumber 	Hyssop
Spinach 	Strawberry, Faba Bean 	 
Squash 	Nasturtium, Corn, Marigold 	Irish Potato
Tomato 	Onion Family, Nasturtium, Marigold, Asparagus, Carrot, Parsley, Cucumber 	Irish Potato, Fennel, Cabbage Family
Turnip 	English Pea 	Irish Potato

----------------------------------------------------------------

COMPANION PLANTING 
    Many plants have natural substances in their roots, flowers, leaves etc. that can alternately repel (antifeedents) and/or attract insects depending on your needs. In some situations they can also help enhance the growth rate and flavor of other varieties. Experience shows us that using companion planting through out the landscape is an important part of integrated pest management. In essence companion planting helps bring a balanced eco-system to your landscape, allowing nature to do its' job.

    By using companion planting, many gardeners find that they can discourage harmful pests without losing the beneficial allies. There are many varieties of herbs, flowers, etc. that can be used for companion plants. Be open to experimenting and find what works for you. Some possibilities would be using certain plants as a border, backdrop or interplanting in your flower or vegetable beds where you have specific needs. Use plants that are native to your area so the insects you want to attract already know what to look for! Plants with open cup shaped flowers are the most popular with beneficial insects.

    Companion planting can combine beauty and purpose to give you an enjoyable, healthy environment. Have fun, let your imagination soar. There are many ways you can find to incorporate these gifting plants in your garden, orchard, flower beds etc.

    The following is a basic plant guide (with some tips) to help you "work in harmony with nature."

        Note: this guide is not intended to solve garden problems as the suggestions may work differently in various situations or not at all. Don't let that discourage you from giving the ideas a try! What works for some may not work for others and vice versa. Experimenting is the only way we can gain new insight for our own individual gardens.

        PLANT GUIDE

        ALFALFA: Perennial that roots deeply. Fixes the soil with nitrogen, accumulates iron, magnesium, phosphorous and potassium. Withstands droughts with it's long taproot and can improve just about any soil! Alfalfa has the ability to break up hard clay soil and can even send its' roots through rocks! Now that is a tenacious plant! Alfalfa is practically pest and disease free. It needs only natural rainfall to survive.

        AMARANTH: A tropical annual that needs hot conditions to flourish. Good with sweet corn, it's leaves provide shade giving the corm a rich, moist root run. Host to predatory ground beetles. Eat the young leaves in salads.

        ANISE: Licorice flavored herb, good host for predatory wasps which prey on aphids and it is also said to repel aphids. Deters pests from brassicas by camouflaging their odor. Improves the vigor of any plants growing near it. Used in ointments to protect against bug stings and bites. Good to plant with coriander.

        ARTEMISIAS: See Wormwood

        BASIL: Plant with tomatoes to improve growth and flavor. Basil can be helpful in repelling thrips. It is said to repel flies and mosquitoes. Do not plant near rue.

        BAY LEAF: A fresh leaf bay leaf in each storage container of beans or grains will deter weevils and moths. Sprinkle dried leaves with other deterrent herbs in garden as natural insecticide dust. A good combo: Bay leaves, cayenne pepper, tansy and peppermint.

          For ladybug invasions try spreading bay leaves around in your house anywhere they are getting in and they should leave.

        BEANS: All bean enrich the soil with nitrogen fixed form the air. In general they are good company for carrots, brassicas, beets, and cucumbers. Great for heavy nitrogen users like corn and grain plants. French Haricot beans, sweet corn and melons are a good combo. Keep beans away from the alliums.

        BEE BALM (Oswego, Monarda): Plant with tomatoes to improve growth and flavor. Great for attracting beneficials and bees of course. Pretty perennial that tends to get powdery mildew.

        BEET: Good for adding minerals to the soil. The leaves are composed of 25% magnesium. Companions are lettuce, onions and brassicas.

        BORAGE: Companion plant for tomatoes, squash and strawberries. Deters tomato hornworms and cabbage worms. One of the best bee and wasp attracting plants. Adds trace minerals to the soil and a good addition the compost pile. Borage may benefit any plant it is growing next to via increasing resistance to pests and disease. After you have planned this annual once it will self seed.

        BRASSICA: Benefit from chamomile, peppermint, dill, sage, and rosemary. They need rich soil with plenty of lime to flourish.

        BUCKWHEAT: Accumulates calcium and can be grown as an excellent cover crop. Attracts hoverflies in droves. (Member of the brassica family.)

        CARAWAY: Good for loosening compacted soil with it's deep roots. Tricky to establish. The flowers attract a number of beneficial insects.

        CATNIP: Deters flea beetles, aphids, Japanese beetles, squash bugs, ants and weevils. We have found it repels mice quite well: mice were wreaking havoc in our outbuildings, we spread sprigs of mint throughout and the mice split! Use sprigs of mint anywhere in the house you want deter mice and ants. Smells good and very safe.

        CHAMOMILE, GERMAN: Annual. Improves flavor of cabbages, cucumbers and onions. Host to hoverflies and wasps. Accumulates calcium, potassium and sulfur, later returning them to the soil. Increases oil production from herbs. Leave some flowers unpicked and   German chamomile will reseed itself. Roman chamomile is a low growing perennial that will tolerate almost any soil conditions. Both like full sun. Growing chamomile of any type is considered a tonic for anything you grow in the garden.

        CHERVIL: Companion to radishes for improved growth and flavor. Keeps aphids off lettuce. Likes shade.

        CHIVES: Improves growth and flavor of carrots and tomatoes . Chives may drive away Japanese beetles and carrot rust fly. Planted among apple trees it may help prevent scab. A tea of chives may be used on cucumbers to prevent downy mildew. See chive tea on disease page.

        CHRYSANTHEMUMS: C. coccineum kills root nematodes. (the bad ones) It's flowers along with those of C. cineraruaefolium have been used as botanical pesticides for centuries. (i.e. pyrethrum) White flowering chrysanthemums repel Japanese beetles.

        CLOVER: Long used as a green manure and plant companion. Attracts many beneficials. Useful planted around apple trees to attract predators of the woolly aphid.

        COMFREY: Accumulates calcium, phosphorous and potassium. Likes wet spots to grow in. Traditional medicinal plant. Good trap crop for slugs. More on comfrey.

        CORIANDER: Repels aphids, spider mites and potato beetle. A tea from this can be used as a spray for spider mites. A partner for anise.

        COSTMARY: This 2-3 foot tall perennial of the chrysanthemum family helps to repel moths.

        DAHLIAS: These beautiful, tuberous annuals that can have up to dinner plate size flowers repels nematodes!

        DILL: Improves growth and health of cabbage. Do not plant near carrots. Best friend for lettuce. Attracts hoverflies and predatory wasps. Repels aphids and spider mites to some degree. Also may repel the dreaded squash bug! (scatter some good size dill leaves on plants that are suspect to squash bugs, like squash plants, yeah that's the ticket.) Dill goes well with onions and cucumbers. Dill does attract the tomato horn worm so it would be useful to plant it somewhere away from your tomato plants to keep the destructive horn worm away from them. We like to plant it for the swallowtail butterfly caterpillars to feed on. Even their caterpillars are beautiful.

        ELDERBERRY: A spray (see insect treatments) made from the leaves can be used against aphids, carrot root fly, cuke beetles and peach tree borers. Put branches and leaves in mole runs to banish them. Yes, it works!

        FLAX: Plant with carrots, and potatoes. Flax contains tannin and linseed oils which may offend the Colorado potato bug. Flax is an annual from 1-4 feet tall with blue or white flowers that readily self sows. We have quite a few flax plants return year after year here in zone 5.

        FOUR-O'CLOCKS: Draw Japanese beetles like a magnet which then dine on the foliage. The foliage is pure poison to them and they won't live to have dessert! It is important to mention that four-o"clocks are also poisonous to humans. Please be careful where you plant them if you have children. They are a beautiful annual plant growing from 2-3 feet high with a bushy growth form.

        GARLIC: Plant near roses to repel aphids. Accumulates sulfur: a naturally occurring fungicide which will help in the garden with disease prevention. Garlic is systemic in action as it is taken up the plants through their pores and when used as a soil drench is also taken up by the roots. Has value in offending codling moths, Japanese beetles, root maggots, snails, and carrot root fly. Researchers have observed that time-released garlic capsules planted at the bases of fruit trees actually kept deer away! Hey, worth a try! Concentrated garlic sprays have been observed to repel and kill whiteflies, aphids and fungus gnats among others with as little as an 6-8% contentration! It is safe for use on orchids too.

            *

              Try our concentrated Garlic Barrier Insect Repellent! 

        GOPHER PURGE: Deters gophers, and moles.

        HORSERADISH: Plant in containers in the potato patch to keep away Colorado potato bugs. There are some very effective insect sprays that can be made with the root. Use the bottomless pot method to keep horseradish contained. Also repels Blister beetles. We have observed that the root can yield antifungal properties when a tea is made from it. (See: Horseradish: Disease)

        HOREHOUND: Stimulates and aids fruiting in tomatoes.

        HYSSOP: Companion plant to cabbage and grapes, deters cabbage moths and flea beetles. Do not plant near radishes. Hyssop may be the number one preference among bees and some beekeepers rub the hive with it to encourage the bees to keep to their home. It is not as invasive as other members of the mint family making it safer for interplanting.

        KELP: When used in a powder mixture or tea as a spray, this versatile sea herb will not only repel insects but feed the vegetables. In particular we have observed that kelp foliar sprays keep aphids and Japanese beetles away when used as a spray every 8 days before and during infestation times. If you have access to seaweed, use it as a mulch to keep slugs away.

        LARKSPUR: An annual member of the Delphinium family, larkspur will attract Japanese beetles. They dine and die! Larkspur is poisonous to humans too!

        LAVENDER: Repels fleas and moths. Prolific flowering lavender nourishes many nectar feeding and beneficial insects. Use dried sprigs of lavender to repel moths. Start plants in winter from cuttings, setting out in spring.

        LEMON BALM: Sprinkle throughout the garden in an herbal powder mixture to deter many bugs. Lemon balm has citronella compounds that make this work: crush and rub the leaves on your skin to keep mosquitoes away! Use to ward off squash bugs!

        LOVAGE: Improves flavor and health of most plants. Good habitat for ground beetles. A large plant, use one planted as a backdrop. Similar to celery in flavor.

        MARIGOLDS: (Calendula): Given a lot of credit as a pest deterrent. Keeps soil free of bad nematodes; supposed to discourage many insects. Plant freely throughout the garden. The marigolds you choose must be a scented variety for them to work. One down side is that marigolds do attract spider mites and slugs.

            *

              French Marigold (T. Patula) has roots that exude a substance which spreads in their immediate vicinity killing nematodes. For nematode control you want to plant dense areas of them. There have been some studies done that proved this nematode killing effect lasted for several years after the plants were These marigolds also help to deter whiteflies when planted around tomatoes and can be used in greenhouses for the same purpose.
            *

              Mexican marigold (T.  minuta) is the most powerful of the insect repelling marigolds and may also overwhelm weed roots such as bind weed! It is said to repel the Mexican bean beetle and wild bunnies! Be careful it can have an herbicidal effect on some plants like beans and cabbage.

        MARJORAM: As a companion plant it improves the flavor of vegetables and herbs. Sweet marjoram is the most commonly grown type.

        MINT: Deters white cabbage moths, ants, rodents, flea beetles, fleas, aphids and improves the health of cabbage and  tomatoes. Use cuttings as a mulch around members of the brassica family. It attracts hoverflies and predatory wasps. Earthworms are quite attracted to mint plantings. Be careful where you plant it as mint is an incredibly invasive perennial. We have found that placing mint (fresh or dried) where mice are a problem is very effective in driving them off!

        MOLE PLANTS: (castor bean plant) Deter moles and mice if planted here and there throughout the garden. Drop a seed of this in mole runs to drive them away.  This is a poisonous plant. See Moles: Critter Trouble

        MORNING GLORIES: They attract hoverflies. Plus if you want a fast growing annual vine to cover something up morning glory is an excellent choice.

        OPAL BASIL: An annual herb that is pretty, tasty and said to repel hornworms!

        NASTURTIUMS: Plant as a barrier around tomatoes, radishes, cabbage, cucumbers, and under fruit trees. Deters wooly aphids, whiteflies, squash bug, cucumber beetles and other pests of the curcurbit family. Great trap crop for  aphids (in particular the black aphids) which it does attract, especially the yellow flowering varieties.  Likes poor soil with low moisture and no fertilizer. It has been the practice of some fruit growers that planting nasturtiums every year in the root zone of fruit trees allow the trees to take up the pungent odor of the plants and repel bugs. It has no taste effect on the fruit. A nice variety to grow is Alaska which has attractive green and white variegated leaves. The leaves, flowers and seeds are all edible and wonderful in salads!
        Try our recipe for: Nasturtium Salad

        NETTLES, STINGING: The flowers attract bees. Sprays made from these are rich in silica and calcium. Invigorating for plants and improves their disease resistance. Leaving the mixture to rot, it then makes an excellent liquid feed. Comfrey improves the liquid feed even more. Hairs on the nettles' leaves contain formic acid which "stings" you.

        PARSLEY: Plant among and sprinkle on tomatoes, and asparagus. Use as a tea to ward off asparagus beetles. Attracts hoverflies. Let some go to seed to attract the tiny parasitic wasps. Parsley increases the fragrance of roses when planted around their base. Rose problems? See: Rose Rx for answers.

        PEPPERMINT: Repels white cabbage moths, aphids and flea beetles. It is the menthol content in mints that acts as an insect repellant. Bees and other good guys love it.

        PEPPERS, HOT: Chili peppers have root exudates that prevent root rot and other Fusarium diseases. Plant anywhere you have these problems. Teas made from hot peppers can be useful as insect sprays.

        PENNYROYAL: Repels fleas. Many people are now using pennyroyal as an alternative lawn. The leaves when crushed and rubbed onto your skin will repel chiggers, flies, gnats, mosquitoes and ticks. Smells nice too!

        PETUNIAS: They repel the asparagus beetle, leafhoppers, certain aphids, tomato worms, Mexican bean beetles and general garden pests. A good companion to tomatoes, but plant everywhere. The leaves can be used in a tea to make a potent bug spray.

        PURSLANE: This edible weed makes good ground cover in the corn patch. Use the stems, leaves and seeds in stir-frys. Pickle the green seed pod for caper substitutes.

        RADISH: Plant radishes with your squash plants. Radishes may protect them from squash borers! Anything that will help prevent this is worth a try. Planting them around corn and letting them go to seed will help fight corn borers.

        ROSEMARY: Companion plant to cabbage, beans, carrots and sage. Deters cabbage moths, bean beetles, and carrot flies. Use cuttings to place by the crowns of carrots for carrot flies. Zones 6 and colder can overwinter rosemary as houseplants or take cuttings.

        RUE: Deters Japanese beetles in roses and raspberries. To make it even more effective with Japanese beetles: crush a few leaves to release the smell. Repels flies and has helped repel cats for us. Some say you should not plant it near cabbage, basil or sage. A pretty perennial with bluish-gray leaves. May be grown indoors in a sunny window. Rue can cause skin irritation! Remedy: See cats and dogs: Rue spray.

        SAGE: Use as a companion plant with broccoli, cauliflower, rosemary, cabbage, and carrots to deter cabbage moths, beetles, black flea beetles and carrot flies. Do not plant near cucumbers or rue. Sage repels cabbage moths and black flea beetles. Allowing sage to flower will also attract many beneficial insects and the flowers are pretty. There are some very striking varieties of sage with variegated foliage that can be used for their ornamental as well as practical qualities. More on sage.

        SOUTHERNWOOD: Plant with cabbage, and here and there in the garden. Wonderful lemony scent when crushed or brushed in passing. Roots easily from cuttings. Does not like fertilizer! It is a perennial that can get quite bushy. We have started to cut it back every spring and it comes back in not time. A delightful plant that is virtually pest free.

        SUMMER SAVORY: Plant with beans and onions to improve growth and flavor. Discourages cabbage moths. Honey bees love it.

        SUNFLOWERS: Planting sunflowers with corn is said by some to increase the yield. Aphids a problem? Definitely plant a few sunflowers here and there in the garden. Step back and watch the ants herd the aphids onto them! We have been doing this for years and it is remarkable. The sunflowers are so tough that the aphids cause very little damage and we have nice seed heads for our birds to enjoy! Talk about a symbiotic relationship!

        TANSY: Plant with fruit trees, roses and raspberries keeping in mind that it can be invasive and is not the most attractive of plants. Tansy which is often recommended as an ant repellant may only work on sugar type ants. These are the ones that you see on peonies and marching into the kitchen. At least for us placing tansy clippings by the greenhouse door has kept them out. Deters flying insects, Japanese beetles, striped cucumber beetles, squash bugs, ants and mice! Tie up and hang a bunch of tansy leaves indoors as a fly repellent. Use clippings as a mulch as needed. Don't be afraid to cut the plant up as tansy will bounce back from any abuse heaped on it! It is also a helpful addition to the compost pile with its' high potassium content.

            *

              Tansy Warning: You do not want to plant Tansy anywhere that livestock can feed on it as it is toxic to many animals. Do not let it go to seed either as it may germinate in livestock fields. 

        TARRAGON: Plant throughout the garden, not many pests like this one. Recommended to enhance growth and flavor of vegetables.

        THYME: Deters cabbage worms. Wooly thyme makes a wonderful groundcover. You may want to use the upright form of thyme in the garden rather than the groundcover types. Thyme is easy to grow from seeds or cuttings. Older woody plants should be divided in spring.

        WHITE GERANIUMS: These members of the pelargonum family draw Japanese beetles to feast on the foliage which in turn kills them.

        WORMWOOD: Keeps animals out of the garden when planted as a border. An excellent deterrent to most insects. A tea made from wormwood will repel cabbage moths, slugs, snails, black flea beetles and fleas effectively. The two best varieties for making insect spray are Silver King and Powis Castle. Adversely Powis castle attracts ladybugs which in turn breed directly on the plant. Silver Mound is great as a border plant and the most toxic wormwood. Note: As wormwood actually produces a botanical poison do not use it directly on food crops. We personally have seen no evidence of artemisias suppressing the growth of plants other than seedlings though many say it does. Even with the silver mound artemisia
        See More on wormwood. for more details.
        For insect spray: See wormwood spray

        YARROW: Yarrow has insect repelling qualities and is an excellent natural fertilizer. A handful of yarrow leaves added to the compost pile really speeds things up. Try it! It also attracts predatory wasps and ladybugs to name just two. It may increase the essential oil content of herbs when planted among them. Yarrow has so many wonderful properties to it and is an ingredient in our own Golden Harvest Fertilizer.


----------------------------------------------------------------

Roses and chives: Gardeners have been planting garlic with roses for eons, because garlic is said to repel rose pests. Garlic chives probably are just as repellent, and their small purple or white flowers in late spring looks great with rose flowers and foliage.

Tomatoes and cabbage: Tomatoes are repellent to diamondback moth larvae, which are caterpillars that chew large holes in cabbage leaves.

Cucumbers and nasturtiums: The nasturtium's vining stems make them a great companion rambling among the cucumbers and squash, suggests Sally Jean Cunningham, master gardener and author of Great Garden Companions. Nasturtiums "are reputed to repel cucumber beetles, but I depend on them more as habitat for predatory insects," such as spiders and ground beetles.

Peppers and pigweed or ragweed: Leafminers preferred the weeds to pepper plants in a study at the Coastal Plains Experiment Station in Tifton, Georgia. Just be careful to remove the weeds' flowers before they set seed or you'll have trouble controlling the weeds.

Cabbage and dill: "Dill is a great companion for cabbage family plants, such as broccoli and brussels sprouts," Cunningham says. "The cabbages support the floppy dill," while the dill attracts the tiny beneficial wasps that control imported cabbageworms and other cabbage pests.

Corn and beans: The beans attract beneficial insects that prey on corn pests such as leafhoppers, fall armyworms and leaf beetles. And bean vinesclimb up the corn stalks.

Lettuce and tall flowers: Nicotiana (flowering tobacco) and cleome (spider flower) give lettuce the light shade it grows best in.

Radishes and spinach: Radishes attract leafminers away from the spinach. The damage the leafminers do to radish leaves doesn't prevent the radishes from growing nicely underground.

Potatoes and sweet alyssum: The sweet alyssum has tiny flowers that attract delicate beneficial insects, such as predatory wasps. Plant sweet alyssum alongside bushy crops like potatoes, or let it spread to form a living ground cover under arching plants like broccoli. Bonus: The alyssum's sweet fragrance will scent your garden all summer.

Cauliflower and dwarf zinnias: The nectar from the dwarf zinnias lures ladybugs and other predators that help protect cauliflower.

Collards and catnip: Studies have found that planting catnip alongside collards reduces flea-beetle damage on the collards.

Strawberries and love-in-a-mist: Tall, blue-flowered "love-in-a-mist (Nigella damascena) looks wonderful planted in the center of a wide row of strawberries," Cunningham says. 


----------------------------------------------------------------

Basil  	Pepper, Tomato, Marigold  	 
Bush Beans 	Beets, Cabbage, Carrots, Celery, Corn, Cucumbers, Eggplant, Lettuce, Pea, Radish, Strawberry, Savory, Tansy, Marigold 	Onion
Pole Beans 	Carrots, Corn Cucumber, Eggplant, Lettuce, Pea, Radish, Savory, Tansy 	Beets, Onion
Beets 	Bush Beans, Cabbage, Onion, Sage 	 
Cabbage Family 	Bush Beans, Beets, Celery, Onions, Tomato, All Strong Herbs, Marigold, Nasturtium 	Strawberry
Carrots 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Lettuce, Onion, Peas, Radish, Tomato, Sage 	Dill
Celery 	Bush Beans, Cabbage, Onion, Spinach, Tomato 	 
Corn 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Cucumber, Melons, Peas, Squash 	Tomato
Cucumbers 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Corn, Lettuce, Onions, Peas, Radish, Marigold, Nasturtium, Savory 	No Strong Herbs
Eggplant 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Spinach 	 
Lettuce 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Carrots, Cucumbers, Onion, Radish, Strawberries 	 
Melons 	Corn, Nasturtium, Radish 	 
Onion 	Beets, Cabbage, Carrots, Celery, Cucumber, Lettuce, Pepper, Squash, Strawberries, Tomato, Savory 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Peas
Parsley 	Tomato 	 
Peas 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Carrots, Corn Cucumber, Radish, Turnips 	Onion
Pepper 	Onion 	 
Radish 	Bush Beans, Pole Beans, Carrots, Cucumber, Lettuce, Melons, Peas, Squash 	Hyssop
Spinach 	Celery, Eggplant, Cauliflower 	 
Squash 	Corn, Onion, Radish 	 
Strawberry 	Bush Beans, Lettuce, Onion, Spinach 	Cabbage
Tomato 	Cabbage, Carrots, Celery, Onion, Mint 	Corn, Fennel


----------------------------------------------------------------
Angelica  	Avoid Dill  	 
Basil 	Tomatoes
Dislikes Rue 	Flies, Mosquitoes
Borage 	Tomatoes, Squash, Strawberries 	Tomato Worm
Caraway 	Plant throughout the garden to loosen the soil.
Avoid Dill 	 
Catnip 	Eggplant 	Flea Beetle, Ants
Chamomile 	Cabbage, Onion 	 
Coriander 	  	Aphids
Chervil 	Radish 	 
Chives 	Carrots 	 
Dead Nettle 	Potatoes 	Potato Bug
Dill 	Cabbage
Dislikes Carrots and Caraway 	 
Fennel 	Most plants dislike this herb 	 
Feverfew 	roses 	attracts aphids away from roses
Flax 	Carrots, Potatoes 	Potato Bug
Garlic 	Roses, Raspberries 	Japanese Beetle, Aphids
Horseradish 	Potatoes 	Potato Bug
Henbit 	  	General Insect Repellent
Hyssop 	Cabbage, Grapes
Dislikes Radishes 	Cabbage Moth
Lavender 	  	Moths -- combine with southernwood, wormwood and rosemary in an anti-moth sachet
Marigolds 	Plant throughout the garden 	Mexican Bean Beetles, Nematodes, others
Mint 	Cabbage, Tomatoes 	White Cabbage Moth, aphids, flea beetles
Mole Plant 	  	Moles and Mice
Nasturtium 	Radishes, Cabbage, Cucurbits, fruit trees 	Aphids, Squash Bugs, Striped Pumpkin Beetle
Pennyroyal 	Roses 	Flies, Mosquitoes, Fleas, others
Petunia 	Beans 	 
Pot Marigold 	Tomatoes 	Tomato Worm, Asparagus Beetles, others
Pyrethrums 	  	Use dried flower heads as a general insect repellent.
Rosemary 	Cabbage, Beans Carrots, Sage 	Cabbage Moth, Bean Beetle, Carrot Fly
Rue 	Roses and Raspberries
Dislikes Sweet Basil 	Japanese Beetles
Sage 	Rosemary, Cabbage, Carrots
Dislikes Cucumbers 	Cabbage Moth, Carrot Fly, Flea Beetle, Slugs
Southernwood 	Cabbages 	Cabbage Moth
Sowthistle 	Tomatoes, Onion, Corn
Plant in moderation 	 
Summer Savory 	Beans 	Bean Beetles
Tansy 	Fruit Trees, Roses, Raspberries 	Flying Insects, Japanese Beetles, Striped Cucumber Beetles, Squash Bugs, Ants, Flies
Thyme 	Cabbage 	Cabbage Worm
Wormwood 	  	Plant as a border to keep animals out of the garden.
Yarrow 	Plant near aromatic herbs to enhance production of essential oils. 	 


----------------------------------------------------------------

Beans--they like celery and cucumbers but dislike onions and fennel.

Beets--Bush beans, lettuce, onions, kohlrabi, and most members of the cabbage family are companion plants. Keep the pole beans and mustard away from them.

Cabbage--Celery, dill, onions and potatoes are good companion plants They dislike strawberries, tomatoes, and pole beans.

Carrots--Leaf lettuce, radish, onions and tomatoes are their friends, Plant dill at the opposite end of the garden.

Corn--Pumpkins, peas, beans, cucumbers and potatoes are nice companion plants, Keep the tomatoes away from them.

Cucumbers--They like corn, peas, radishes, beans and sunflowers. Cucumbers dislike aromatic herbs and potatoes so keep them away.

Lettuce--It grows especially well with onions. Strawberries carrots, radishes and cucumbers also are friends and good companion plants.

Onions--Plant them near lettuce, beets, strawberries and tomatoes but keep them away from peas and beans.

Peas--Carrots, cucumbers, corn, turnips and radishes plus beans, potatoes and aromatic herbs are their friends. Keep the peas away from onions, garlic, leek, and shallots.

Radishes--This is one vegetable that has a lot of friends, they are excellent companion plants with beets, carrots, spinach and parsnips. Radishes grow well with cucumbers and beans. It's said that summer planting near leaf lettuce makes the radishes more tender. Avoid planting radishes near cabbage, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, broccoli, kohlrabi or turnips.

Squash--Icicle radishes, cucumbers and corn are among their friends.

Tomatoes--Carrots, onions and parsley are good companion plants. Keep the cabbage and cauliflower away from them.

Sometimes plant friendships are one-sided. Carrots are said to help beans, but beans dont reciprocate. Though beans will help nearby cucumbers.

Other plants have bad companions and you'll be doing them a favor to keep them apart. Beans and onions are natural enemies so keep them at opposite sides of the garden.

If you have a patio you might try mint to repel ants, and basil to keep the flies and mosquitoes away. Both herbs have pretty flowers and are fragrant too. Besides, they're nice to harvest and use in the kitchen. In her book, "Carrots Love Tomatoes" Louise Riotte, says getting to know good and bad companions can double the bounty of your garden. The only required work is to plan your garden planting properly.

"Carrots Love Tomatoes", Garden Way is an informative, well-illustrated guide to the subject of companion planting. The book recently reprinted was originally published under the title "Secrets of Companion Planting for Successful Gardening".

If you would like more information on the various plants to use for companion planting and natural insect and disease control, you'll find "Carrots Love Tomatoes" is available in bookstores that carry the Garden Way books. 


----------------------------------------------------------------

Favorite Veggies and their Companions
Beans
Good companions:  carrots, chives, rosemary, sage, radishes, lettuce, cucumbers
Bad companions:  onions and fennel.

Beets
Good companions:  bush beans, lettuce, onions, cabbage
Bad companions:  mustard

Cabbage
Good companions:  celery, dill, onions and potatoes
Bad companions:  strawberries and tomatoes.

Carrots
Good companions:  leaf lettuce, radish, onions and tomatoes
Bad companions:  dill

Corn
Good companions:  pumpkins, peas, beans, cucumbers and potatoes

Cucumbers
Good companions:  corn, peas, radishes, beans, carrots and sunflowers.
Bad companions:  aromatic herbs and potatoes.

Lettuce
Good companions:  onions, strawberries carrots, radishes and cucumbers

Onions
Good companions:  lettuce, beets, strawberries and tomatoes
Bad companions:  peas and beans.

Peas
Good companions:  carrots, cucumbers, corn, turnips, radishes, beans, lettuce
Bad companions:  onions and garlic.

Radishes
Good companions:  beets, carrots, spinach, parsnips, cucumbers and beans
Bad companions:  cabbage, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, broccoli, or turnips.

Squash
Good companions:  radishes, cucumbers and corn

Tomatoes
Good companions:  carrots, onions, parsley, basil
Bad companions:  cabbage, cauliflower, corn, fennel



Companion Planting Do's

    * Cucumbers are not happy campers when planted close to many varieties of herbs. However, here is no evidence of the herbs being affected by the cucumbers.


    * Cabbages do well with some cucumber plants nearby. By the time you plant cucumber seeds the cabbages will have a good start. When hot days come, the cucumber vines can "hide" from the hot, wilting sun under the cabbage leaves.


    * Radishes and cucumbers both do better planted close to each other. Try planting cucumbers around a bed of radish. As the radishes are harvested the cucumbers can fill out the center area.


    * Parsley and carrots do well planted together.


    * Grow plants that need good pollination close to aromatic plants that attract pollinating creatures.


    * Plant tomatoes by your asparagus. A substance called asparagin in asparagus repels tomato pests.


    * Garlic and yarrow enhance the production of oils in herbs.


    * Beets improve the production of onions.


    * Marigolds are ideal companions through out the garden, as they're reputed to attract hoverflies, which prey on aphids, as well as reduce the number of nematodes in the soil.


    * Chives planted around the base of fruit trees will discourage insects from climbing the trunk.


    * Nasturtiums are another great flower in the garden as they hold aphids, cabbage worms, and Colorado beetles at bay, and deter wooly aphids, squash bugs and whiteflies.


    * Bush beans and potatoes, are excellent companions because they protect each other from beetle attack.


    * Radishes can be planted in the same row as carrots because the radishes will germinate rapidly and loosen the soil for the later emerging carrots. The radishes are harvested and the carrots are left to fill in the spaces.


    * Garlic improves the growth and health of roses and raspberries ...deters Japanese beetles.


    * A beneficial relationship is planting carrots and onions together. The onion scent masks the carrot scent hence fooling the dreaded carrot fly.


    * Chives enhance the flavor and growth of tomatoes, carrots, apples, berries and grapes. They also are thought to repel aphids and Japanese beetles.


    * Basil improves the flavor of many garden vegetables, specifically tomatoes and lettuce, and repels flies and mosquitoes.


    * Plant cool weather crops (spinach, lettuce) between hotter weather crops (tomatoes). The tomatoes will shield the spinach and lettuce from the hot sun but allow enough diffused sunlight through so the spinach and lettuce will still survive.


    * Lemon Balm attracts bees for pollination.




Companion Planting Don'ts

    * cabbage with beans, onions with peas and onions with beans.


    * Sunflowers are best planted alone although they are thought to assist in the growth of beans and cucumbers.


    * Walnuts will kill almost anything within reach of their roots!


    * Don't plant carrots near dill. They will be smaller and fewer the closer they are to it.


    * Keep Fennel away from your garden. Fennel is disliked by most plants.


    * Do not plant strawberries where tomatoes, potatoes, peppers or eggplant have been grown in the past four years, because these crops carry the root rot fungus Verticillium which also attacks strawberries.

 
Plant Good Companions Bad
Companions
Asparagus Parsley, Capsicum, Basil, Lettuce, Tomato

Basil Pepper, Tomato

Beans, Broad Potatoes, Corn, Lettuce

Beans, Bush or Snap Corn, Eggplant, Cucumbers, Strawberries, Celery, Onion

Beans, Lima Oregano, Chickweed

Beans, Runner Carrots, Cauliflower, Lettuce, Savory, Radish, Corn, Spinach, Dwarf beans, Chicory Sunflower, Beetroot, Garlic, Onions, Leek, Kohlrabi

Beetroot Onions, Kohlrabi, Lettuce, Spinach, Silver beet

Broccoli Onions, Leeks, Celery, Rosemary, Dill, Sage, Peppermint
Brussels Sprout Thyme, Sage, Rosemary, Potatoes
Cabbage Beans, Beets, Celery, Onions, Tomato Strawberry
Carrots Beans, Lettuce, Onion, Peas, Radish, Tomato, Sage, Leek Dill
Cauliflower Peppermint, Onions, Leeks, Kale, Sage, Thyme
Celery Beans, Cabbage, Onion, Spinach, Tomato, Leeks, Thyme
Chinese Cabbage Onions, Cauliflower, Lettuce, Potatoes
Chives Onion, Cabbage
Corn Beans, Cucumber, Melons, Peas, Squash Tomato
Cucumbers Beans, Corn, Lettuce, Onions, Peas, Radish, Kohlrabi
Eggplant Beans, Spinach, Peppers, Lettuce
Kohlrabi Beetroot, Onion, Oregano, Mint, Sage, Thyme Beans
Leeks Cabbage, Carrots, Celery
Lettuce Beans, Carrots, Cucumbers, Onion, Radish, Strawberries
Melons Corn, Radish, Sunflowers Potatoes
Onion Beets, Cabbage, Carrots, Celery, Cucumber, Lettuce, Pepper, Squash, Strawberries, Tomato Beans, Peas
Parsley Tomato, Asparagus, Carrots, Peppermint
Parsnip Lettuce, Chive, Shallots
Peas Beans, Carrots, Corn, Cucumber, Radish, Turnips Onion
Pepper, Chilli Onion, Lettuce, Squash, Sweet Pepper, Cucumber
Pepper, Sweet Basil, Tomato, rhubarb, eggplant, Lettuce, Asparagus, Parsley, Silver Beet, Spinach
Potato Sunflower, Cucumber, Beans, Peas, Broad Beans, Tomato**
Pumpkin Corn Potato
Radish Beans, Carrots, Cucumber, Lettuce, Melons, Peas, Squash, Kohlrabi
Rosemary Sage, Beans, Cabbage, Carrot
Sage Rosemary, Cabbage, Carrot
Shallot Cabbage, Beetroot, Carrot, Mint, Sage, Thyme Peas, Beans
Spinach Celery, Eggplant, Cauliflower, Strawberries
Squash Corn, Onion, Radish
Strawberry Lettuce, Bush Beans, Silver Beet, Spinach Cabbage
Swede Peas, Lettuce, Onion Potato
Thyme Cabbage, Onion, Sage
Tomato Pepper, Asparagus, Cabbage, Carrots, Celery, Onion, Mint Corn, Kohlrabi, Potato**
Turnip Peas, Beans, Chives Potato
Watermelon Corn, Pumpkin
Zucchini Lettuce, Peppermint, Peppers, Corn, Silver beet, Spinach, Squash, Tomato, Parsley Potato

6877**Potato and Tomato are both friend and foe; Planting tomatoes near potatoes helps protect against potato blight but slows the growth of the tomato plant.
'" -- various, unknown
