"'
Meeting on the Strategic Plan
Convention on Biological Diversity

Introduction

In decision VI/26 The Conference of the Parties took note of the conclusions of the Seychelles Workshop on the Strategic Plan and the report of the Open-ended Inter-Sessional Meeting on the Strategic Plan, National Reports and Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and adopted a Strategic Plan for the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Conference of the Parties urged Parties, States, intergovernmental organizations and other organizations to review their activities, especially their national biodiversity strategies and action plans in the light of the Strategic Plan for the Convention on Biological Diversity.

The full text of the Strategic Plan, as contained in the Annex to Decision VI/26, is reproduced below.

STRATEGIC PLAN FOR THE CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY

   1. In 2002, 10 years after the Convention on Biological Diversity was opened for signature, the Parties have developed this Strategic Plan in order to guide its further implementation at the national, regional and global levels.

   2. The purpose is to effectively halt the loss of biodiversity so as to secure the continuity of its beneficial uses through the conservation and sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources.

      A. The issue

      Biodiversity is the living foundation for sustainable development
   3. Biodiversity-the variability within and among living organisms and the systems they inhabit-is the foundation upon which human civilization has been built. In addition to its intrinsic value, biodiversity provides goods and services that underpin sustainable development in many important ways, thus contributing to poverty alleviation. First, it supports the ecosystem functions essential for life on Earth, such as the provision of fresh water, soil conservation and climate stability. Second, it provides products such as food, medicines and materials for industry. Finally, biodiversity is at the heart of many cultural values.

      The rate of loss is still accelerating
   4. The rate of biodiversity loss is increasing at an unprecedented rate, threatening the very existence of life as it is currently understood. The maintenance of biodiversity is a necessary condition for sustainable development, and as such constitutes one of the great challenges of the modern era.

      The threats must be addressed
   5. Addressing the threats to biodiversity requires immediate and long-term fundamental changes in the way resources are used and benefits are distributed. Achieving these adjustments will require broad-based action among a wide range of actors.

      The Convention is an essential instrument for achieving sustainable development
   6. The importance of the biodiversity challenge was universally acknowledged at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, which met in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, and through the development of the Convention on Biological Diversity. In ratifying the Convention, the Parties have committed themselves to undertaking national and international measures aimed at its achieving three objectives: the conservation of biological diversity; the sustainable use of its components; and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources.

      Achievements
   7. Since the adoption of the Convention, the Conference of the Parties has met several times and, on each occasion, through its decisions has taken steps to translate the general provisions of the Convention into practical action. This process has initiated national action plans in over 100 countries, raised awareness about biodiversity and led to the adoption of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, a landmark treaty which provides an international regulatory framework for the safe transfer, handling and use of any living modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnology.

      The challenges
   8. The implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity has been impeded by many obstacles, as outlined in the appendix hereto. A fundamental challenge for the Convention lies in the broad scope of its three objectives. The need to mainstream the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources across all sectors of the national economy, the society and the policy-making framework is a complex challenge at the heart of the Convention. This will mean cooperation with many different actors, such as regional bodies and organizations. Integrated management of natural resources, based on the ecosystem approach, is the most effective way to promote this aim of the Convention.

   9. The scope of the Convention means that the provision by developed country Parties of resources to implement the Convention is critical and essential.

  10. The Strategic Plan can promote broad-based action by bringing about a convergence of actions around agreed goals and collective objectives.

      B. Mission
  11. Parties commit themselves to a more effective and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention, to achieve by 2010 a significant reduction of the current rate of biodiversity loss at the global, regional and national level as a contribution to poverty alleviation and to the benefit of all life on earth.

      C. Strategic goals and objectives

      Goal 1: The Convention is fulfilling its leadership role in international biodiversity issues.

      1.1 The Convention is setting the global biodiversity agenda.

      1.2 The Convention is promoting cooperation between all relevant international instruments and processes to enhance policy coherence.

      1.3 Other international processes are actively supporting implementation of the Convention, in a manner consistent with their respective frameworks.

      1.4 The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is widely implemented.

      1.5 Biodiversity concerns are being integrated into relevant sectoral or cross-sectoral plans, programmes and policies at the regional and global levels.

      1.6 Parties are collaborating at the regional and subregional levels to implement the Convention.

      Goal 2: Parties have improved financial, human, scientific, technical, and technological capacity to implement the Convention.

      2.1 All Parties have adequate capacity for implementation of priority actions in national biodiversity strategy and action plans.

      2.2 Developing country Parties, in particular the least developed and the small island developing States amongst them, and other Parties with economies in transition, have sufficient resources available to implement the three objectives of the Convention.

      2.3 Developing country Parties, in particular the least developed and the small island developing States amongst them, and other Parties with economies in transition, have increased resources and technology transfer available to implement the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety.

      2.4 All Parties have adequate capacity to implement the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety.

      2.5 Technical and scientific cooperation is making a significant contribution to building capacity.

      Goal 3: National biodiversity strategies and action plans and the integration of biodiversity concerns into relevant sectors serve as an effective framework for the implementation of the objectives of the Convention.

      3.1 Every Party has effective national strategies, plans and programmes in place to provide a national framework for implementing the three objectives of the Convention and to set clear national priorities.

      3.2 Every Party to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety has a regulatory framework in place and functioning to implement the Protocol.

      3.3 Biodiversity concerns are being integrated into relevant national sectoral and cross-sectoral plans, programmes and policies.

      3.4 The priorities in national biodiversity strategies and action plans are being actively implemented, as a means to achieve national implementation of the Convention, and as a significant contribution towards the global biodiversity agenda.

      Goal 4: There is a better understanding of the importance of biodiversity and of the Convention, and this has led to broader engagement across society in implementation.

      4.1 All Parties are implementing a communication, education, and public awareness strategy and promoting public participation in support of the Convention.

      4.2 Every Party to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is promoting and facilitating public awareness, education and participation in support of the Protocol.

      4.3 Indigenous and local communities are effectively involved in implementation and in the processes of the Convention, at national, regional and international levels.

      4.4 Key actors and stakeholders, including the private sector, are engaged in partnership to implement the Convention and are integrating biodiversity concerns into their relevant sectoral and cross-sectoral plans, programmes and policies.

      D. Review
  12. The Strategic Plan will be implemented through the programmes of work of the Convention on Biological Diversity implementation of national biodiversity strategies and action plans, and other national, regional and international activities.

  13. Better methods should be developed to objectively evaluate progress in the implementation of the Convention and the Strategic Plan. 

Appendix

OBSTACLES TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY

   1. Political/societal obstacles
         1. Lack of political will and support to implement the Convention on Biological Diversity
         2. Limited public participation and stakeholder involvement
         3. Lack of mainstreaming and integration of biodiversity issues into other sectors, including use of tools such as environmental impact assessments
         4. Political instability
         5. Lack of precautionary and proactive measures, causing reactive policies. 

   2. Institutional, technical and capacity-related obstacles
         1. Inadequate capacity to act, caused by institutional weaknesses
         2. Lack of human resources
         3. Lack of transfer of technology and expertise
         4. Loss of traditional knowledge
         5. Lack of adequate scientific research capacities to support all the objectives. 

   3. Lack of accessible knowledge/information
         1. Loss of biodiversity and the corresponding goods and services it provides not properly understood and documented
         2. Existing scientific and traditional knowledge not fully utilized.
         3. Dissemination of information on international and national level not efficient
         4. Lack of public education and awareness at all levels. 

   4. Economic policy and financial resources
         1. Lack of financial and human resources
         2. Fragmentation of GEF financing
         3. Lack of economic incentive measures
         4. Lack of benefit-sharing. 

   5. Collaboration/cooperation
         1. Lack of synergies at the national and international levels
         2. Lack of horizontal cooperation among stakeholders
         3. Lack of effective partnerships
         4. Lack of engagement of scientific community. 

   6. Legal/juridical impediments
         1. Lack of appropriate policies and laws 

   7. Socio-economic factors
         1. Poverty
         2. Population pressure
         3. Unsustainable consumption and production patterns
         4. Lack of capacities for local communities. 

   8. Natural phenomena and environmental change
         1. Climate change
         2. Natural disasters. 

'" -- http://www.biodiv.org/sp
