Corporatism is a more general expression of the Military Industrial Complex.

Feudalists usually morph into corporatists to enforce their usury.

Corporatists create war with wealth gained through usury of hoarded resources.

Wars enforce the artificial scarcity of those resources and drain both countries of capital and productive labor.



Corporatists disable democracy by purchasing law creation with their excessive wealth gathered through usury.

Corporate feudalists run most larger Earth governments.


"'Fascism should more appropriately be called corporatism, since it is the merger of state and corporate power.'" -- Benito Mussolini.


"'Under pressure from polluting industries, the Bush Administration's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) have begun a rulemaking process that could redefine (and reduce) which water bodies are protected under the Act. At the same time, EPA and the Corps issued a 'guidance' document instructing their field staff to stop protecting certain water bodies.'" -- www.cleanwateraction.org/water/dontdump.html

"'A couple of years ago, the National Park Service set in motion a plan to boot most snowmobiles out of Yellowstone National Park. The machines are noisy and smelly, their riders can harass wildlife, and the pollution they emit was obscuring Old Faithful and other beauty spots and forcing rangers to wear gas masks.

The public was invited to weigh in. Three hundred fifty thousand people did so. Eighty percent supported the ban. Snowmobile manufacturers filed a lawsuit. Just recently the Bush administration made its decision public: the number of belching snowmobiles in the park will increase. The administration spokesman acknowledged that public sentiment was overwhelmingly in favor of the ban, but said, in effect, tough potatoes. We'll do what we want to. This despite the public outcry and an internal Park Service study that found banning the machines would be the best alternative for the environment.'" -- www.democracyctr.org/water.html

"'The liberty of a democracy is not safe if the people tolerate the growth of private power to a point where it becomes stronger than their democratic State itself. That, in its essence, is Fascism -- ownership of government by an individual, by a group or by any controlling private power.
'" -- FDR


The "Homeland Security Bill" includes a clause to protect Eli Lilly from both past and future lawsuits related to the ingredient 'Thermisol' used as a vaccine preservative.

The new "Clean Air Act" claims to cut pollution, but does so only with respect to 1996 measurements.  The new bill actually increases the allowable levels of mercury produced by coal-fired electric plants.

One tax cuts raises from $25,000 to $75,000 the amount small business owners can write off when buying an SUV for business purposes.

www.culturechange.org/issue10/taken-for-a-ride.htm GM killed our public transit

www.theyrule.net

www.informationclearinghouse.info/video1/claryle.ram
"'Carlyle Documentary Video,'" updated 2004 version:
  rtsp://streams2.omroep.nl/tv/vpro/tegenlicht/bb.20040125.rm (200 MB, 500 kbps)
  rtsp://streams2.omroep.nl/tv/vpro/tegenlicht/sb.20040125.rm (100 kbps)

original 2003 version:
  rtsp://streams2.omroep.nl/tv/vpro/tegenlicht/bb.20030516.rm (180 MB, 500 kbps)
  rtsp://streams3.omroep.nl/tv/vpro/tegenlicht/sb.20030516.rm (100 kbps).
