hemp, fiber, material, cloth, egypt, Swadeshi

http://www.abc.net.au/rural/grow/links.htm
"'
Cotton emergence, growth and lint yield were reduced and fibre quality degraded by sowing leguminous crops such as chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) and faba bean (Vicia Faba L.) before cotton. Greatest inhibition of cotton occurred when seed material remained in situ. Germination studies using cold-water extracts of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), chickpea, faba bean, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata Walp.), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor Moench.) and dolichos (Lablab purpureus L.) seed materials, and pot experiments using seed/soil mixtures of the same rotation crops showed that cotton germination, emergence, and growth were lower with legumes in comparison with cereals and the untreated control. Cotton growth reduction caused by cereal and leguminous rotation crop stubble were greater when incorporated compared with mulching. It is suggested that allelopathic effects of leguminous rotation crops could be reduced by green manuring the crops prior to seed formation.

Key words: Allelopathy, rotation crop, Vertisol, cotton, farming system, legume, irrigation.

Allelopathy is defined as the direct or indirect harmful or beneficial effects of one plant on another through production of chemical compunds that escape into the environment (6). Commonly, however, it is the harmful effects of these chemical compounds which are referred to as allelopathy. The impact of allelopathy in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.)-based farming systems in Australia has been little studied, although a significant body of research exists in the United States with respect to the allelopathic reduction of cotton emergence, vegetative and reproductive growth, and yield by leguminous cover crops (1, 2, 4, 7, 8). These data suggest that there is a strong interaction between soil-borne diseases and allelopathy in cotton-based cropping systems; and there is significant variation between different legume crops in allelopathic potential which is often modified by soil type.
In this paper we present data on allelopathic behaviour of grain legumes observed:
· initially in a field trial established since 1993 which has as its objective developing sustainable crop rotations and rotation-crop management strategies for irrigated cotton-based farming systems; and
· supplementary pot trials and germination studies established to confirm the allelopathic potential or otherwise of a number of commonly used rotation crops in cotton-based farming systems.
'"
