See instead: Free Resource Lease















----------------------------------------------------------------
                The Coopoly Resource Lease
                    Version pending (draft)


 Copyright (C) 2002 Personal Sovereignty Foundation.
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this lease document, modified versions must be clearly noted.


    Summary:
Emancipation of labor through "at cost" access to the factors of production.

Owners of land, tools, buildings, creatures, etc. 

Copying source code has cost.  It may take: media space and wear, network traffic, time, labor.

Physical objects such as spaghetti or a chair are more difficult to copy.

Spaghetti may contain wheat, tomatoes, basil, pepper, water, salt.




                Preamble

  The leases for most resources are designed to take away your
sovereignty to share and change them.  By contrast, the Coopolis
Resources Lease (CRL) is intended to guarantee your sovereignty to
share and change sovereign resources -- to make sure the resource is
sovereign for all its users.

Just as the General Public License uses copyright law to lock open
computer source code, the CRL uses property law to lock open finite resources and capital goods.

Contract
This lease may be used to lock open access to:
  Finite resources: land, water, source code, tool design, organism genetics.
  Capital goods: a building, a shower, a CD of games, a backhoe, an almond tree.

NOTE: Capital goods are often 'instances' of finite resources.

  When we speak of sovereign resources, we are referring to
  sovereignty.  When we speak of cost we are speaking of economic
  costs.  This lease is designed to make sure you have the freedom
  to:

1. Distribute resources (and charge for this service if you wish).
2. Receive resources.
3. Change the design or implementation of these resources.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if
you distribute resources, or if you modify them.

  For example, if you distribute resources, whether gratis or for a fee,
you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You must
make sure that they, too, receive the right to use the resource, and
the education to do so.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps:

(1) Use laws at all levels to enforce ownership such as copyright,
    patents, trademarks, or any other of the so called intellectual
    property legislation.

(2) Offer you this lease which gives you legal permission to raise,
    propagate, and modify the resource.

There is no warranty for these free resources.


  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                COOPOLIS RESOURCE Lease
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This Lease applies to any resource or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this Coopolis Resource Lease.  The "Resource",
below, refers to any such resource, and a "propagation" means either
the Resource or any offspring of that Resource.  Each leasee is
addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this Lease; they are outside its scope.  The act of
'operating' the resource is not restricted, and the output of that operation
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
resource (independent of having been made possible by the resource).
Whether that is true depends on which resource and which operation.


  1. You may raise and distribute the resource through any technique,
provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this Lease and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Resource a copy of this
Lease along with the Resource.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of creating the
propagation, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in
exchange for a fee.


  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Resource or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Resource, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must clearly indicate the modifications.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Resource or any
    part thereof, to be leased as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this Lease.

    c) You must inform the consumer that there is no warranty (or
    else, saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may
    redistribute the resource under these conditions, and telling the
    user how to view a copy of this Lease.


These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Resource,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this Lease, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Resource, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this Lease, whose permissions for other leasees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Resource.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the
Resource with the Resource (or with a work based on the Resource) into
a package or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this Lease.


  3. You may copy and distribute an instance of the Resource (or
propagation of it, under Section 2) under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine or human
    readable (whichever is most effective) design documents such as:
    schematics, blue-prints, source code, genetic descriptions, which
    must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
    medium customarily used for interchange of that resource; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine or human readable copy of the corresponding design
    documents, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
    above on a medium customarily used for interchange of that
    resource; or,

The design documents for a work means the preferred form of the work
for making modifications to it.  For software - for instance, source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of an instance of the resource is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the design documents from the same place counts as
distribution of the design documents, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the design along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublease, or distribute the Resource
except as expressly provided under this Lease.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublease or distribute the Resource is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this Lease.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this Lease will not have their leases terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this Lease, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Resource or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this Lease.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Resource (or any work based on the
Resource), you indicate your acceptance of this Lease to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Resource or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Resource (or any work based on the
Resource), the recipient automatically receives a lease from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Resource subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this Lease.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this Lease, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this Lease.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
Lease and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Resource at all.  For example, if a patent
lease would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Resource by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this Lease would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Resource.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the sovereign resource distribution system, which is
implemented by public lease practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of resources distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute resources through any other system and a leasee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this Lease.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Resource is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Resource under this Lease
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this Lease incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this Lease.


  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public Lease from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this Lease which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this Lease, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LEASED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public Lease as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Lease, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public Lease for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Lease
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA


Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public Lease.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public Lease does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public Lease instead of this Lease.









Hurdles:
    Vandalism, waste/mess
    Working within current property tax structure could halt small endeavors.

This is very rough work in progress...





The Sovereign Resource License poem:

It's viral.  It's alive.  It's subversive.  It's hack.
Saint IGNUcius is author of the original attack.

He's ever so modest, but he sold himself short.
The GPL's flaw is that it's not general enough.

This is a military strategem fit for a king.
It defends against attackers - even armies.

For think of the terrorists the governments hire.
Think of their evil, most darkest desires.

They hate our freedom.  Or so we are told.
But how will they take it?  By the way, where's our gold?

The game is much larger I suddenly learned.
When our leader decided to take a new turn.

A turn that I learned wasn't new after all.
When I turned off the TV and just stared at the wall.

This helped right at first to recover my thoughts.
But it wasn't enough.  I must build on the past.

To understand the history they don't teach us in school.
To understand how they lead and we are such fools.

Of course it's not just our nation, this is as old as the hills.
It's oppression and suppression.  It's denial of will.

It's the age old problem of landowner and surf.
It's the king and the peasant; the lord, the renter.

The aristocrat, the proletariat.
The boss, the worker.

The dominator, the dominated.
The deliverer, the acceptor.

This pattern is so ingrained in our life.
We take it for granted that there must be much strife.

The poor just must suffer.  There's no other way.
Otherwise how would the rich be able to play?

It's a game that is played.
With paper and coins.

But there's a part we've forgotten.
It's under our feet.

Land must be regarded.
Where may you step?

Things seem abundant when there's plenty in sight.
But ownership determines the fate of your plight.


weber.ucsd.edu/~amany/ideas.html
www.oekonux.org
