synonym: syncretism

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecumenical:
"'The word "ecumenism" (also oecumenism, \u0153cumenism) (IPA: /\u025bk\u02c8ju\u02d0m\u025b\u02ccn\u026az\u0259m/) is derived from the Greek oikoumene, which means "the inhabited world". The term is usually used with regard to movements toward religious unity. In its broadest meaning therefore, ecumenism is the religious initiative towards world-wide unity. At a minimum, ecumenism is the promotion of unity, co-operation, or improved understanding between distinct religious groups or denominations within the same religion more or less broadly defined.

Two general types of ecumenism are discernible. The interfaith ecumenical movement strives for greater mutual respect, toleration, and co-operation among the world religions. Ecumenism in this sense is discussed at great length under the entry on religious pluralism. This is distinguishable from ecumenism within a faith-group.

One of the important theoreticians of ecumenism was a French priest and theologian Yves Congar.
[edit]

Ecumenical council

In the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches an ecumenical council is that of nearly all bishops of the whole church, capable of infallible decisions on theological questions. For the Roman Catholic Church a valid ecumenical council would be formed by a meeting of the bishops who are in communion with the Pope and summoned by him for that purpose. Eastern Orthodoxy construes it as including only, and with the consent of all of, the Orthodox which, they contend, since the Great Schism, consists of only the Eastern Orthodox; they call the Patriarch of Constantinople the "Ecumenical Patriarch" and "first among equals": he has jurisdiction within his patriarchate and in those other parts of the world without another patriarch.

The World Council of Churches is an ecumenical council of representatives from most Protestant and Orthodox churches worldwide, with observers from the Holy See. It strives for world Christian unity and action, especially with regard to world relief organizations and messages of faith. Ecumenism is a movement initially amonst Protestant Churches towards a reunion of Christians. Some parts of the Orthodox Church participate in the W.C.C. Since the Second Vatican Council (1962-1965)(see Unitatis Redintegratio) the Roman Catholic Church has participated in the Ecumenical Movement though it has not joined the W.C.C. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which also believes itself to be authentic and universal, has not joined the World Council of Churches either.
[edit]

See also

    * Universalism
    * Unitarian Universalism
    * Christian ecumenism
    * Jewish views of religious pluralism and Relationships between Jewish religious movements
    * Religious pluralism

'"