org.eea.eu.int

www.cooperativeresearch.org/project.jsp?project=bush_enviro_record
www.nrdc.org/bushrecord/

hartfordadvocate.com/gbase/News/content?oid=oid:15286

www.organicconsumers.org/corp/bushinhofe051203.cfm
"'
In 2002, the second hottest year
on record, scientists saw Arctic Ocean ice coverage shrink by more
than at any time since satellite measurements were first made a quarter
century ago.
'"

www.alternet.org/story.html?StoryID=15814
"In 2002, the second hottest year on record, scientists saw Arctic Ocean ice coverage shrink by more than at any time since satellite measurements were first made a quarter century ago. And, they say, continued melting could leave the Arctic nearly ice-free by summer 2050."

These protections have been removed:

1. Regulations minimizing raw sewage discharges and requiring public notice of overflows

2. A rule prohibiting the federal government from awarding contracts to companies that violate federal laws, including environmental regulations

3. Forest Service regulations giving watershed health, wildlife, and recreation higher priority than timber sales while carving out a larger role for scientists, and providing for more and earlier public input in developing forest plans

4. National Park Service rules phasing out snowmobiles in Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks

5. A provision allowing the secretary of the Interior to stop new mines from being created on federal land if they would result in "substantial irreparable harm" to people or the environment

6. Requirements that mining companies protect waterways and clean up mine-related pollution

7. A portion of the Endangered Species Act requiring the Fish and Wildlife Service to respond to private lawsuits seeking to add new species to the list

8. Army Corps of Engineers regulations mandating the replacement of destroyed wetlands and banning the destruction of seasonal streams

9. New National Park Service rules banning personal watercraft at eight national parks

10. Army Corps regulations stating that rivers and streams may not be used for dumping industrial waste


www.sierraclub.org
www.davidsuzuki.org 
www.enn.com
economads.com
www.energyconservationinfo.org
www.oklahomafood.org
www.energyconservationinfo.org
www.johannesburgsummit.org
www.ewg.org   Environmental Working Group
www.iied.org
www.worldwise.com  Eco-friendly resources for everyday living
www.unep.org
