see also: Turmeric

Some say gingers are a digestive aid, and are good to eat with legumes for instance.


"'Summary:
  plant horizontally/flat with eyes up, and barely cover with soil.  keep slightly damp and warm.  when sprouted (around a month later) move outside into sun and raise the amount of water.  Then, when the plant dies back in the winter, either harvest or bring the plant in and reduce water severely.


You can purchase your garden ginger at your local grocery store if the rhizome is firm without wrinkles, and are slick with a slight shine and has good eyes.  slightly green is a bonus.  Fill a flower pot with a good-quality fast-draining potting soil (ginger does best in soil that has a pH in the 5-7 range) to 3 inches below the top edge of the pot. 

Plant the rhizome flat - with the best eyes on top.  press into the soil and cover lightly with an inch of soil. Water thoroughly and place in a warm sunny area.  Gingers need warmth to grow, [55 - 70 f]., but cannot withstand direct sunlight, so must be planted in a shade area once established.  Don't water it again until the soil is dry, and then only enough to keep it evenly moist, not wet. If the rhizome is kept too wet, it may rot - especially until it resumes full growth.

Before winter, dig up and bring inside, let dry out and store until spring. You must try some of the more exotic kinds, the pine cone ginger will grow about 6' tall, has cone shaped bright red flowers about the size of a man's fist and has a ginger fragrance when squeezed, also, the butterfly ginger will grow about 4' tall has a breath taking white bloom

Another type is turmeric, the bright yellow seasoning used in Indian and far east dishes. The roots of turmeric are much smaller than the regular ginger we use.

Another method is to grow outside in large pots, then root cellar them in the winter.  The top will die back, and the soil will dry out. After danger of frost is past, take outside, water, and enjoy.

'" -- ?
