see also: Cooporatism


Henry George wrote "Progress and Poverty" to explain how property law and tax support the hoarding and usury of finite resources.

 finite resources should be rented from the community at an exponential rate.  In other words, the rent (or tax) would increase exponentially according to the amount of land being held (and never be effected by the improvement of the land).  This discourages hoarding while encouraging improvement.


He attempted to stop this hoarding by running and nearly winning the seat of New York City Mayor but found the corporate interests know from where their wealth springs.


"'No individual, corporation or government can legitimately claim sovereign control over land except in its just role of securing the equal rights of all people.'" -- Henry George [ www.henrygeorge.org/rem0.htm ]


"'But the fundamental truth, that in all economic reasoning must be firmly grasped, and never let go, is that society in its most highly developed form is but an elaboration of society in its rudest beginnings, and that principles obvious in the simpler relations of men are merely disguised and not abrogated or reversed by the more intricate relations that result from the division of labor and the use of complex tools and methods. The steam grist mill, with its complicated machinery exhibiting every diversity of motion, is simply what the rude stone mortar dug up from an ancient river bed was in its day - an instrument for grinding corn. And every man engaged in it, whether tossing wood into the furnace, running the engine, dressing stones, printing sacks or keeping books, is really devoting his labor to the same purpose that the prehistoric savage did when be used his mortar - the preparation of grain for human food.'" -- cepa.newschool.edu/het/profiles/george.htm


"'When he was a young boy learning the trade of typesetting, an old printer had once remarked to him that "in old countries wages are always low, while in new ones they are always high." He recognized this truth, but neither he nor the printer could think why it was so.

Again, while working his passage on a schooner from San Francisco to Victoria, he listened to a group of miners talking. They resented the presence of the Chinese in the American minefields, though they were only working the 'cheap diggings'. Henry asked what harm they were doing. The answer was puzzling, in the same way as the old printer's remark. "No harm now, but wages will not always be high in California. As the country grows, as people come in, wages will go down, and some day or other, white men will be glad to get those diggings that the Chinamen are now working."

No stranger himself to hard times, it was the contrast between immense wealth and squalid poverty in New York that shocked the young man from California and turned into a compulsion, his desire to know why dreaded poverty always increased alongside desired wealth.

The answer came unexpectedly some months later when he had returned to San Francisco. He had the habit of riding out into the country for recreation. One day, having ridden hard into the hills, he stopped to rest his horse. Idly, by way of conversation, he asked a passing teamster what the land was worth around there. The answer was "I don't know exactly, but there is a man over there who will sell some land for a thousand dollars an acre."

A thousand dollars for an acre of land in rural California in 1869 was an astronomical price, many times its current value in use. But the transcontinental railway had just reached Sacramento, and it was generally believed that the railway would be extended to Oakland, which would then attract many people and become a great city like San Francisco. All the land for miles around Oakland had shot up in price as people scrambled to get their hands on it, anticipating the increased value it would have when the extra population arrived needing land for houses, shops, factories.

Henry George suddenly understood "the reason for advancing poverty with advancing wealth. With the growth of population, land grows in value and the men who work it must pay more for the privilege." He spent the rest of his life communicating this insight to others.'" -- www.henrygeorgefoundation.org/george.htm


progress.org
www.askhenry.com

