bees make honey


www.sristi.org/honeybee.html
www.ips.fi/koulut/199745/7.htm

"'
Creaming honey is simply controlling the natural crystalisation process. Almost all honeys will eventually naturally granulate, most within a few months while others remain liquid for longer. In England, such naturally granulated honeys are called 'set honey'.

The speed and the texture that the honey granulates is mostly a product of the ratio of the two main sugars of honey, dextrose and levulose. For a reason never clearly explained to me, sugars often have two names, confusing things very nicely, thank you. Dextrose is also known as glucose and levulose is known as fructose. And just to add to the confusion, levulose is also known to many people as fruit sugar.

If a honey has a high dextrose to levulose ratio, it will granulate rapidly with a fine crystal. If it has a high levulose content, it will granulate slowly and often with crystals large enough that you can feel their sharpness on your tongue.

To 'cream' honey, the beekeeper mixes in a percentage of honey that has already granulated finely. This honey is called a 'starter', since its crystal structure will start the liquid honey to granulate in the same manner. In order speed up the granulation, the starter needs to be thoroughly mixed with the liquid honey, and then the container needs to be kept cool. Not cold, not refrigerator style cold, but simply cool. The ideal temperature is about 14 degrees Celcius (57 degrees Farenheit).

Keeping the honey at this temperature causes it to granulate as rapidly as possible, and since it has already got a nice grain started, the entire volume will granulate the same as the starter you introduced. It should be stirred occasionally during the process. Once the granulation is well established, the now cloudy looking honey can be run into its final containers. Again, it should be kept cool to assist rapid granulation.

Stir the starter honey thoroughly into the liquid honey. It won't be easy, but you need to completely spread the granulated honey thorough the liquid. Afterward, keep it cool by placing your bulk container (well covered, of course) in a cool room, such as a basement or cold closet.

Stir it several times over the next week. It should start clouding, as the granulation spreads rapidly through the honey. You can now run it into the containers in which you will be distributing it, and again, keep them cool. The honey should be nicely creamed, set with a fine, smooth grain, within a week or two.

Kiwi beekeepers have using this process for over 60 years.

Credit for the 'scientific' approach to creamed honey goes to an American, a Dr Dyce who was a beekeeping professor at Cornell University. He described a complex and detailed method to produce creamed honey that differs little from the basic description given above. He did meticulously give temperatures and amounts, such as the ideal temperature to heat the honey before adding the starter, to make sure there were no natural crystals present in it.

I've always felt that we as Kiwi beekeepers never really got all the credit we really deserved. The way I understand it, Dr Dyce visited New Zealand and saw the process in action several years earlier!

As I mentioned earlier, your results may be somewhat variable. Its possible that, even after following all the directions, your honey might still set hard as a rock. Doing it as a hobbyist as you are, you can't control all the factors involved, but the odds are that you'll produce a better product than just trusting to natural granulation.

If you get really interested in the process, you might care to read further on what is quite a specialised subject. I can't see how anyone could ever tire of being a hobbyist beekeeper, not if you've really got an inquisitive mind about how things work. Beekeeping provides you with all sorts of excuses to go off on tangents as diverse as entomology and food technology, to say nothing of apicultural botany and woodworking!
'" -- condensed from http://www.beekeeping.co.nz/info/article6.htm
