Related: home, shelter

Humans store themselves in houses when the bankers allow.

We each need private housing for sovereign security.

The designs should be locked open so we can finally begin improving on the past.

We also need communal areas for cooperation.

Housing usually costs far more than the tools, materials and labor used in construction.
. The creation and transport of most tools and materials includes usury.

. The construction workers are paid as low as they are "willing to bear", with the owner pocketing the rest as usury.

. Land usury (speculation) causes a tiny lot to change hands many times, with the cost rising at each exchange.

. Property tax punishes improvements and promotes speculation.

Henry George shows how the current property tax drives up the cost of central land and causes sprawl.

. Bankers get the most money while working the least.


"'The Grip of Death is a literal translation of mortgage, when the owner of a house pledges his or her house to another with a handshake...unto death.'" -- from the Old French words mort = "dead", and gage = "pledge"



Let's help each other build energy stable housing around a locked open area.


Cooporatism plans to solve this by applying Henry George's single-tax to large parcles of land by retaining ownership, then leasing under Copyleft-like licensing in a sort of "GPL applied to autarcho-syndicalism" hack.

Passive solar and mirrors on the south, straw bale construction on the north.

All structures should attempt to have translucent southern walls and water 'bank' heat collectors to lower or eliminate winter heating bills.  These would also serve as vital greenhouses for the winter months.

Of course the southern windows would be shaded in the summer.  Carefully placed eves can direct the lower winter rays into the structure, while blocking the high summer sun without ever moving them.

Carefully placed gifting trees can also help shade, while banks of gifting trees or gifting bushes can encourage useful airflow.

A trench-tube convection chimney is a dry well where air is directed down, through the cool underground, then up to the residence.

Use evaporative cooling in arid regions.

food storage

refrigeration:
The condenser coil should be in coolest part of the house - likely the root cellar.  Thermostat controlled flap could open in cooler months to allow near zero cost winter refrigeration.

freezer:
maybe only available in winter.


Heating
  solar mirror concentration and wood chip stove:
  cook
  distill and heat water


cooling

Light: Sunlight to every room.  Alcohol, methane.  Candles from vegetable oil, beeswax, herbs.

Furniture, flooring (rug, mat), walling, windows (frames, glass, curtains)

Inhabitalbe greenhouse utilizing passive solar heating, evaporative cooling, automatic irrigation,

High capacity, cleaned 24vDC with switch-down stations and universal plugs.  Power personal computers, electric toothbrushes, car equipment.  Optional adjustable recharge controllers for cameras, cell phones, etc.

design requirements:

====Obvious yet never accomplished:
Counters and splash areas around sinks and tubs should slope slightly toward the drain so puddles never develop.  And no, this is not inherently expensive.

Locally grown straw bale construction on the north side to keep out the winter chill and ambient summer heat.  Glass and pivoting external mirrors on the south bring light deep inside the home year round.  The mirrors also concentrate heat on internal heat-sinks during sunny winter days while reflecting heat out during summer.  The south interior serves as solar green house for more tropical Gifting Plants.  Interior floors covered with local materials (local soft wood, rugs (see RoboLoom), rock).  Robotic mirrors to heat water, distill water, cook food, dry clothes, dry food, distill ethanol.


www.clpha.org/page.cfm?pageID=564
www.limits.com/cpph/
www.hud.gov
www.phada.org
www.nhlp.org/html/pubhsg
https://www.usgbc.org

www.sdearthtimes.com/et0596/et0596s2.html

With the Nebraska method, compressed bales of straw serve as the main support for the roof. Using this load-bearing technique, a continuous beam is placed around the house's upper wall on top of stacked straw bales, and then a roof is put on top of that. (Think of them as big bricks.) Typically, the bales are pinned together with rebar (steel bars). The completed structure is wrapped with chicken wire and stucco is applied, giving the home a conventional external appearance.

The insulation R value is so high that energy stable shelter can become a reality.

They're cheaper to build, too. Straw bales cost about $10 a square foot to build, compared to $80 to $100 for conventional homes in San Diego County."
