Related: babel, bibl, lang, logo

Wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_machine_translation_software

Statmt.org/moses "'Moses is a statistical machine translation system that allows you to automatically train translation models for any language pair. All you need is a collection of translated texts (parallel corpus).'" and MosesDecoder.sf.net

Linguaphile.sf.net "'Linguaphile is a simplistic and easy to use command line translator. It is open source, platform independent, and programmed in perl.'"
cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@linguaphile.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/linguaphile login
cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@linguaphile.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/linguaphile co -P linguaphile

Logos-MT.com

www.NonGNU.org/libtranslate "'libtranslate is a library for translating text and web pages between natural languages. Its modular infrastructure allows to implement new translation services separately from the core library.'"

OpenTrad.org "'open-source automatic translation'" 

Apertium.sf.net "'Apertium is a toolbox to build open-source shallow-transfer machine translation systems, especially suitable for related language pairs: it includes the engine, maintenance tools, and open linguistic data for several language pairs.'"

Matxin.sf.net "'Matxin is one of the two open-source machine translation engines being developed inside project OpenTrad; Matxin is designed to translate between different kind of languages (see Documentation below). The OpenTrad consortium is led by Eleka Ingeniaritza Linguistikoa.'"

WordTrans.sf.net "'Wordtrans is a graphical application that allows you to look for words in several dictionaries. It can also translate the word that you select with your mouse. Wordtrans supports three kind of dictionaries:

* Dictionaries from Babylon Translator.
      Wordtrans can read the dictionaries from Babylon Translator, right now only the dic format, which is the old format. Dictionaries in the new format (blg) will work in a future release.
* Dictionaries in plain text.
      There are some dictionaries in text plain format (thay can be edited in any text editor), like the English-Spanish dictionary i2e with 24,401 terms or the German-English dictionary, with 111,088 terms. And it's also possible to add new terms to those dictionaries.
* Dictionaries for the DICT server.
      The DICT server has a lot of very interesting dictionaries (although most of them are only in English).
'"

poEdit.org "'poEdit is cross-platform gettext catalogs (.po files) editor.'"

Traduki.sf.net "'Welcome to Traduki! Traduki is a suite of open source linguistic software. Originally intended to be "just" a machine translation software, Traduki got its author so involved that it eventually grew into a much larger scale project.'"

Lingvo.org Esperanto something
