Morinda Citrifolia

Genus:	     MORINDA
Species:	 CITRIFOLIA
Family Name: Rubiaceae or Combretaceae?
aka:         Noni, Indian Mulberry

Hardy, continuous bearing tropical coast medicinal shrub 15 - 30' tall.  Dark shiny leaves are 8-10 inch long.  White flowers become yellow then red fruit.

Leaf: 4-6% protein.
Flower:
Fruit: 
Seed: roast
Bark: red dye
Wood:
Root: yellow dye
Tonic: eye, mouth, throat, stomach, skin, fever

Shade for coffee companion.

Poor soil, high salt, drought

www.naturia.per.sg/buloh/plants/morinda.htm
farrer.riv.csu.edu.au/ASGAP/m-cit.html
www.canoeplants.com/noni.html



Noni This is a fascinating plant, demanding of our respect. Its prolific beauty, she bears fruit year round...as if to say, "here I am, please use me." However, as you may already be aware, few of us are willing to make its intimate acquaintance. The aroma of its fruit is truly awesome, somewhat like bleu cheese. Some say "disgusting" or "horrid" or "stinks bad" or worse. And, it doesn't taste good either! Yet, it is well-known to be one of the main healers among the traditional Hawai`i medicinal plants. It is said that this plant food is to be used when we are feeling really ill or really old.

Noni The noni, also known as Indian Mulberry, with the scientific name of Morinda citrifolia, is a small evergreen shrub or tree, usually less than 10 feet high, occasionally rising to 20 feet. The conspicuous large dark green shiny leaves are generally paired, except where forming fruit. Thick and oval in shape, these leaves are deep veined, short-stemmed and 8 inches or longer. The flowers form in globose heads, about an inch long and bearing many small white flowers. The flower heads grow to become mature fruit, 3 to 4 inches in diameter. The fruits resemble those of `ulu, breadfruit, only smaller. The surface is divided into somewhat warty polygonal pitted cells. The noni fruit begins green, turns yellow, and as mentioned, has an unpleasant, insipid, foul or fetid odor, especially as it ripens to whiteness and falls from the tree.

In the early morning, the best time to pick most plants, I have carried a gallon glass jar like the institutional ones for pickles, pule (prayed with) the plant, thanking it for its food. I picked the fruit at its yellow stage, filling the jar and capping it tightly. The jar is placed in a sunny spot, letting it set there for five days to a week or more, until the fruit turns to mush and sun-charged juices drain into the bottom of the jar. It is these juices that can be strained into a cleaner smaller jar, and then refrigerated until used.

Another method taught by Hawai`i's healers is to pick the fruit before ripe, letting it ripen within the home. When soft, place it in a blender with a little fresh water and make into a sauce. Then mash and strain through a sieve. This concoction can be refrigerated in a clean glass jar, and the person who wishes the medicine can take a clean straw and slurp two sucks from the jar, in the morning and in the evening. 

