"'Feature: [Costa Rica] Open Source Seeds?
Posted on Saturday, August 09, 2003 by WW Editor	  

A conversation with an anthropologist here in Costa Rica brought up the possibility of applying Open Source methods to the preservation and propagation of seeds. While we know very little about this field of science, we also think it has great possibilities.

As we've noted on this site before, Open Source or Free Software and Linux are firing the imagination of creative minds in other fields of human endeavor. In the developed countries, societies which are increasingly moving towards domination by the centralized power paradigm exemplified by Big Government and Multinational Corporations, people are realizing that the model of Open Source provides an opposing as well as more cooperative, democratic and distributed method of enabling appropriate resources and technology to reach the hands of individuals. Probably the most well-developed example of this is what is happening with the evolution of new licensing models for works of art and music.

But Open Source shouldn't be limited strictly to transfer of things digital. Another example of where this method might be beneficially used is in the development and propagation of seeds. If you think about it, a seed is analogous to an advanced self-contained embedded computer system. It contains the software (DNA) and hardware (cells) that under the right conditions allow development and self-replication. Sadly, this technology is being taken over by large multinational corporations whose only goal is to maximize profit by creating artificial symbiotic systems of seeds and petrochemical derivatives in the form of fertilizers and insecticides. This effort is also being abetted by the passage of laws which allow the very genetics of plants to be patented, creating monopolies which foster unhealthy dependencies in production and consumption. In addition, in most cases little or no attention is being paid to what long-term effects these products may have on consumers, producers, ecosystems or society in general.

Many native and heirloom plant varieties, developed over hundreds and perhaps even thousands of years, have already been lost. It seems to us that what is needed is for a few creative minds to develop a similar Open Source system for the increased availability and distribution of seeds. This would perhaps initially consist of an organization that would develop the methodology and structure for seeds to be cataloged, distributed, and systematically reproduced and grown, followed by a network of individuals and farms who would embrace and further develop the concept. We and several others with whom we've spoken think the time is right for such an idea. Of course the internet would play a significant part in both the development and functioning of such a model.

While there are dedicated individuals and companies who are committed to preserving many varieties of plants, we think the idea for Open Source could greatly expand the knowledge and availability of seeds to people all over the world. Please feel free to use the comments posting feature of this site to continue the discussion if you have any interest in this. Or if you know of a group or individual who already does this, please post any relevant links. If you can't post in English, post in whatever language you can and we'll try to get it translated.

Willy Smith, reporting from Costa Rica
'" -- http://worldwatch.linuxgazette.com/article.php?sid=120&mode=thread&order=0
