Aleister Crowley, Jack Parsons, L. Ron Hubbard

The Ordo Templi Orientis is an alchemical mystery religion.

"'Had!  The manifestation of Nuit.'" -- OTO's Liber Al

"'
Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO)
As secret societies go, the Ordo Templi Orientis scores high marks on the "society" front, but the "secret" aspect is iffy.



Although it is most famously associated with Aleister Crowley, the OTO had an illustrious history of nearly 10 years before he came along! Oops! Did I say 10 years? I meant 10,000 years.

Carl Kellner, the founder of the OTO, was an initiated Mason from Austrian who had a strange encounter with three wise men while attempting to find himself in Asia.

These keepers of the Sacred Whatever supposedly initiated him into a really, really ancient tradition of magick and mysticism, which inspired him to create his own branch of their secret society, the Hermetic Brotherhood of Light.

Later, Kellner hooked up with other Masons, Rosicrucians and Theosophists (whose worldview was generally Gnostic and who believed that all religions were basically the same religion). Kellner began to believe that he could unify the various esoteric traditions of Freemasonry with the mysteries of science and religion. This, of course, would empower him to create wealth, health and world domination. Not a bad gig (if he had pulled it off)!

Kellner created his own sect, an offshoot of Freemasonry called the Ordo Templi Orientis (the Oriental Order of the Templars). Unlike the Masons, the OTO would allow women as members (expanding the potential base as well as making the sex-orgy-rituals more fun, see below). Otherwise, at this stage, the organization was fairly similar to the Masons, and the inner circle of OTO leadership had advanced Masonic degrees as a job requirement.

Kellner's partner in founding OTO was Theodor Reuss, who had previously tried to create a revival of the Illuminati.

A Rosicrucian, Grand Master Mason and 33rd Degree Scottish Rite Mason himself, Reuss was also a singer and had taken part in the first performance of Parsifal several years earlier. When Kellner died in 1905, Reuss took the OTO from fledgling concept to formal group.

In addition to their membership in Masonry, Reuss and Kellner shared an interest in sex magick, which was a major tenet of OTO practice. Reuss and Kellner translated tantric sex manuals from the Orient and elsewhere and were enthused about its possibilities. They were particularly interested in the properties of sexual fluids in the context of alchemy. The theory (as understood by the uninitiated) generally went that the right combination of male and female juices could be used to create a "Philosopher's Stone" style magickal object of power, which could be used to create a homonculus, a magickal child.

Or something like that. Reuss toiled away in relative obscurity but with much intrigue and arcane doings involving groups with many weird names and numerical designations, until a certain Aleister Crowley came on the scene in 1910.

On a trip to England, Reuss and Crowley had a meeting of the minds which resulted in Crowley's accelerated initiation into some of the higher degrees of the OTO. Crowley was, if anything, even more deeply immersed in sex magick than Reuss. He was also a master at convincing people of his credibility, and Reuss bought into the Beast's mystique.

In 1912, Crowley was named Grand Master of the OTO in Britain and Ireland, tweaked slightly for Crowley's purposes. The lower degrees of the lodge were called the M:.M:.M:. (funky punctuation is a must for occult orders), and Crowley's manifesto announcing its launch managed to lay claim to possessing just about every conceivable source of occult knowledge, including (but not limited to) the Knights Templar, the Gnostics, the Illuminati, the Knights of Malta, the Holy Grail, the Rosicrucians, the Masons (all Rites), the Golden Dawn (and all Hermetic traditions). Crowley liked to think big.

It's hard to have a "secret" organization whose membership includes Crowley, so it's fortunate that the OTO had always been (relatively) public. The man liked to talk; he published the secrets of the Golden Dawn (of which he had formerly been a member) and distributed them to anyone who could read. "Low profile" was not in his vocabulary. And he had bigger plans than just staging orgies and granting himself self-important titles (although he unabashedly enjoyed those activities as well).

When Reuss died in 1921, the OTO became Crowley's playground. For the Great Beast, the society offered an opportunity to evangelized his self-made religion, Thelema, which was a mystical spiritual framework Crowley claimed to have channeled nearly 20 years earlier. OTO was also a potential source of funds, along with just about everything and everyone else in Crowley's world.

Under Crowley's somewhat laid-back leadership, OTO crept forward over the course of decades. Crowley spearheaded an expansion into the United States, where the infamous Agape Lodge of the OTO played host to the Antichrist stylings of Jack Parsons. Parsons, of course, was mentor to L. Ron Hubbard, who swiped the OTO's Thelemic teachings, rewrote them into bad science-fiction and called it Scientology.

In the wake of World War II, as Crowley aged, becoming ill and self-absorbed, the OTO languished. Some branches dropped out entirely in protest of his ascension.

Crowley's successor, Karl Germer, oversaw the slowest period in what had not exactly been a booming history thus far. From the late 1940s through the 1960s, the OTO proper stopped accepting new members, while internecine warfare among various sects led to further divisions.

When Germer died without naming a successor, bloody conflicts erupted and the organization foundered leaderless for a time until Grady McMurty, a friend of Crowley's, led a revival in 1969. McMurty launched a recruitment drive and sought new members, establishing bases in Dublin and San Francisco. By this time, the damage had been done and the OTO's membership has seriously splintered into a host of offshoots, each claiming some sort of apostolic succession from Crowley, who was now the personification of OTO.

McMurty's successor was elected by what was left of the Order, as per his wishes. The leader, known as the "Caliph" prefers to be known only by his magical nom de guerre Hymenaeus Beta (his secret identity is allegedly "William Breeze," but this couldn't be independently confirmed). The organization today boasts a membership of around 3,000 (depending on who you ask). Interested hangers-on and assorted other sects would substantially increase that figure.

The OTO is more like a religion than a cult, and its major rites are closely guarded secrets that can for the most part be found by anyone who has a search engine. The organization's members, like its icon, Crowley, just can't keep a secret.

One of the most well-known OTO rituals is the Gnostic Mass, written by Crowley, which is open to the uninitiated. The Gnostic Mass is surprisingly like a Catholic Mass, except with more groping, a better sense of humor and the naked chick sitting on the altar.

The really big secrets hoarded by the OTO leadership have to do with sex magic. Higher level OTO initiates apparently spend rather a lot of time obsessing about penises (as did Crowley himself). According to various exposes of the OTO, the secrets include swallowing sperm as the ultimate form of Holy Communion, although some alleged "secret" texts of the OTO specify that the substance is "analogous" to sperm without actually being sperm, whatever that's supposed to mean.

Higher level initiates also learn a lot of tantric stuff, which can hardly be considered "secret," what with the Kama Sutra and more advanced texts available in every bookstore. Top OTO officials also practice Masturbation, heterosexual intercourse and homosexual intercourse for magical effect, once again techniques that aren't exactly top-secret in occult circles.

One major text, Liber IAO, has actually managed to remain secret, or at least offline. This book, allegedly by Crowley, supposedly delves further into the whole sperm-which-is-not-sperm thing, with all sorts of no-doubt dazzling benefits and magical powers detailed at extraordinary length (as was Crowley's wont).

One wonders exactly why OTO bothers with the secrecy thing, given the widespread discussion of its secrets and the blatant disregard Crowley himself showed for vows of silence, but it seems to be very important to them, and the OTO has sued to block publication of its most sacred rites and techniques. So if you're at a dinner party with an OTO member, don't ask if he or she swallows, or you could be opening yourself up for a world of hurt.







"'
OTO Lamen

U.S. Grand Lodge, Ordo Templi Orientis
  	
Liber AL vel Legis

sub figura CCXX

The Book of the Law

as delivered by
XCIII = 418
to
DCLXVI

A\u2234A\u2234 Publication in Class A

Chapter I | Chapter II | Chapter III | The Comment

Chapter I
1

I,1: Had! The manifestation of Nuit.

I,2: The unveiling of the company of heaven.

I,3: Every man and every woman is a star.

I,4: Every number is infinite; there is no difference.

I,5: Help me, o warrior lord of Thebes, in my unveiling before the Children of men!

I,6: Be thou Hadit, my secret centre, my heart & my tongue!

I,7: Behold! it is revealed by Aiwass the minister of Hoor-paar-kraat.

I,8: The Khabs is in the Khu, not the Khu in the Khabs.

I,9: Worship then the Khabs, and behold my light shed over you!
2

I,10: Let my servants be few & secret: they shall rule the many & the known.

I,11: These are fools that men adore; both their Gods & their men are fools.

I,12: Come forth, o children, under the stars, & take your fill of love!

I,13: I am above you and in you. My ecstasy is in yours. My joy is to see your joy.

I,14:

    Above, the gemmèd azure is
      The naked splendour of Nuit;
    She bends in ecstasy to kiss
      The secret ardours of Hadit.
    The wingèd globe,the starry blue,
      Are mine, O Ankh-af-na-khonsu! 

I,15: Now ye shall know that the chosen priest & apostle of infinite space is the prince-priest the Beast; and in his woman called the Scarlet Woman is all power given. They shall gather my children into their fold: they shall bring the glory of the stars into the hearts of men.
3

I,16: For he is ever a sun, and she a moon. But to him is the winged secret flame, and to her the stooping starlight.

I,17: But ye are not so chosen.

I,18: Burn upon their brows, o splendrous serpent!

I,19: O azure-lidded woman, bend upon them!

I,20: The key of the rituals is in the secret word which I have given unto him.
4

I,21: With the God & the Adorer I am nothing: they do not see me. They are as upon the earth; I am Heaven, and there is no other God than me, and my lord Hadit.

I,22: Now, therefore, I am known to ye by my name Nuit, and to him by a secret name which I will give him when at last he knoweth me. Since I am Infinite Space, and the Infinite Stars thereof, do ye also thus. Bind nothing! Let there be no difference made among you between any one thing & any other thing; for thereby there cometh hurt.
5

I,23: But whoso availeth in this, let him be the chief of all!

I,24: I am Nuit, and my word is six and fifty.

I,25: Divide, add, multiply, and understand.

I,26: Then saith the prophet and slave of the beauteous one: Who am I, and what shall be the sign? So she answered him, bending down, a lambent flame of blue, all-touching, all penetrant, her lovely hands upon the black earth, & her lithe body arched for love, and her soft feet not hurting the little flowers: Thou knowest! And the sign shall be my ecstasy, the consciousness of the continuity of existence, the omnipresence of my body.
6

I,27: Then the priest answered & said unto the Queen of Space, kissing her lovely brows, and the dew of her light bathing his whole body in a sweet-smelling perfume of sweat: O Nuit, continuous one of Heaven, let it be ever thus; that men speak not of Thee as One but as None; and let them speak not of thee at all, since thou art continuous!
7

I,28: None, breathed the light, faint & faery, of the stars, and two.

I,29: For I am divided for love\u2019s sake, for the chance of union.

I,30: This is the creation of the world, that the pain of division is as nothing, and the joy of dissolution all.

I,31: For these fools of men and their woes care not thou at all! They feel little; what is, is balanced by weak joys; but ye are my chosen ones.
8

I,32: Obey my prophet! follow out the ordeals of my knowledge! seek me only! Then the joys of my love will redeem ye from all pain. This is so: I swear it by the vault of my body; by my sacred heart and tongue; by all I can give, by all I desire of ye all.

I,33: Then the priest fell into a deep trance or swoon, & said unto the Queen of Heaven; Write unto us the ordeals; write unto us the rituals; write unto us the law!
9

I,34: But she said: the ordeals I write not: the rituals shall be half known and half concealed: the Law is for all.

I,35: This that thou writest is the threefold book of Law.

I,36: My scribe Ankh-af-na-khonsu, the priest of the princes, shall not in one letter change this book; but lest there be folly, he shall comment thereupon by the wisdom of Ra-Hoor-Khu-it.
10

I,37: Also the mantras and spells; the obeah and the wanga; the work of the wand and the work of the sword; these he shall learn and teach.

I,38: He must teach; but he may make severe the ordeals.

I,39: The word of the Law is \u0398\u03b5\u03bb\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1.

I,40: Who calls us Thelemites will do no wrong, if he look but close into the word. For there are therein Three Grades, the Hermit, and the Lover, and the man of Earth. Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.
11

I,41: The word of Sin is Restriction. O man! refuse not thy wife, if she will! O lover, if thou wilt, depart! There is no bond that can unite the divided but love: all else is a curse. Accurséd! Accurséd be it to the aeons! Hell.

I,42: Let it be that state of manyhood bound and loathing. So with thy all; thou hast no right but to do thy will.

I,43: Do that, and no other shall say nay.

I,44: For pure will, unassuaged of purpose, delivered from the lust of result, is every way perfect.
12

I,45: The Perfect and the Perfect are one Perfect and not two; nay, are none!

I,46: Nothing is a secret key of this law. Sixty-one the Jews call it; I call it eight, eighty, four hundred & eighteen.

I,47: But they have the half: unite by thine art so that all disappear.

I,48: My prophet is a fool with his one, one, one; are not they the Ox, and none by the Book?
13

I,49: Abrogate are all rituals, all ordeals, all words and signs. Ra-Hoor-Khuit hath taken his seat in the East at the Equinox of the Gods; and let Asar be with Isa, who also are one. But they are not of me. Let Asar be the adorant, Isa the sufferer; Hoor in his secret name and splendour is the Lord initiating.

I,50: There is a word to say about the Hierophantic task. Behold! there are three ordeals in one, and it may be given in three ways. The gross must pass through fire; let the fine be tried in intellect, and the lofty chosen ones in the highest. Thus ye have star & star, system & system; let not one know well the other!
14

I,51: There are four gates to one palace; the floor of that palace is of silver and gold; lapis lazuli & jasper are there; and all rare scents; jasmine & rose, and the emblems of death. Let him enter in turn or at once the four gates; let him stand on the floor of the palace. Will he not sink? Amn. Ho! warrior, if thy servant sink? But there are means and means. Be goodly therefore: dress ye all in fine apparel; eat rich foods and drink sweet wines and wines that foam! Also, take your fill and will of love as ye will, when, where and with whom ye will! But always unto me.
15

I,52: If this be not aright; if ye confound the space-marks, saying: They are one; or saying, They are many; if the ritual be not ever unto me: then expect the direful judgments of Ra Hoor Khuit!

I,53: This shall regenerate the world, the little world my sister, my heart & my tongue, unto whom I send this kiss. Also, o scribe and prophet, though thou be of the princes, it shall not assuage thee nor absolve thee. But ecstasy be thine and joy of earth: ever To me! To me!
16

I,54: Change not as much as the style of a letter; for behold! thou, o prophet, shalt not behold all these mysteries hidden therein.

I,55: The child of thy bowels, he shall behold them.

I,56: Expect him not from the East, nor from the West; for from no expected house cometh that child. Aum! All words are sacred and all prophets true; save only that they understand a little; solve the first half of the equation, leave the second unattacked. But thou hast all in the clear light, and some, though not all, in the dark.
17

I,57: Invoke me under my stars! Love is the law, love under will. Nor let the fools mistake love; for there are love and love. There is the dove, and there is the serpent. Choose ye well! He, my prophet, hath chosen, knowing the law of the fortress, and the great mystery of the House of God.

  All these old letters of my Book are aright; but \u05e6 is not the Star. This also is secret: my prophet shall reveal it to the wise.
18

I,58: I give unimaginable joys on earth: certainty, not faith, while in life, upon death; peace unutterable, rest, ecstasy; nor do I demand aught in sacrifice.

I,59: My incense is of resinous woods & gums; and there is no blood therein: because of my hair the trees of Eternity.
19

I,60: My number is 11, as all their numbers who are of us. The Five Pointed Star, with a Circle in the Middle, & the circle is Red. My colour is black to the blind, but the blue & gold are seen of the seeing. Also I have a secret glory for them that love me.

I,61: But to love me is better than all things: if under the night-stars in the desert thou presently burnest mine incense before me, invoking me with a pure heart, and the Serpent flame therein, thou shalt come a little to lie in my bosom. For one kiss wilt thou then be willing to give all; but whoso gives one particle of dust shall lose all in that hour. Ye shall gather goods and store of women and spices; ye shall wear rich jewels; ye shall exceed the nations of the earth in splendour & pride; but always in the love of me, and so shall ye come to my joy. I charge you earnestly to come before me in a single robe, and covered with a rich headdress. I love you! I yearn to you! Pale or purple, veiled or voluptuous, I who am all pleasure and purple, and drunkenness of the innermost sense, desire you. Put on the wings, and arouse the coiled splendour within you: come unto me!
21

I,62: At all my meetings with you shall the priestess say\u2014and her eyes shall burn with desire as she stands bare and rejoicing in my secret temple\u2014To me! To me! calling forth the flame of the hearts of all in her love-chant.

I,63: Sing the rapturous love-song unto me! Burn to me perfumes! Wear to me jewels! Drink to me, for I love you! I love you!
22

I,64: I am the blue-lidded daughter of Sunset; I am the naked brilliance of the voluptuous night-sky.

I,65: To me! To me!

I,66: The Manifestation of Nuit is at an end.
Chapter II
23

II,1: Nu! the hiding of Hadit.

II,2: Come! all ye, and learn the secret that hath not yet been revealed. I, Hadit, am the complement of Nu, my bride. I am not extended, and Khabs is the name of my House.

II,3: In the sphere I am everywhere the centre, as she, the circumference, is nowhere found.

II,4: Yet she shall be known & I never.

II,5: Behold! the rituals of the old time are black. Let the evil ones be cast away; let the good ones be purged by the prophet! Then shall this Knowledge go aright.

II,6: I am the flame that burns in every heart of man, and in the core of every star. I am Life, and the giver of Life, yet therefore is the knowledge of me the knowledge of death.
24

II,7: I am the Magician and the Exorcist. I am the axle of the wheel, and the cube in the circle. "Come unto me" is a foolish word: for it is I that go.

II,8: Who worshipped Heru-pa-kraath have worshipped me; ill, for I am the worshipper.

II,9: Remember all ye that existence is pure joy; that all the sorrows are but as shadows; they pass & are done; but there is that which remains.

II,10: O prophet! thou hast ill will to learn this writing.

II,11: I see thee hate the hand & the pen; but I am stronger.
25

II,12: Because of me in Thee which thou knewest not.

II,13: for why? Because thou wast the knower, and me.

II,14: Now let there be a veiling of this shrine: now let the light devour men and eat them up with blindness!

II,15: For I am perfect, being Not; and my number is nine by the fools; but with the just I am eight, and one in eight: Which is vital, for I am none indeed. The Empress and the King are not of me; for there is a further secret.

II,16: I am The Empress & the Hierophant. Thus eleven, as my bride is eleven.
26

II,17:

    Hear me, ye people of sighing!
      The sorrows of pain and regret
    Are left to the dead and the dying,
      The folk that not know me as yet. 

II,18: These are dead, these fellows; they feel not. We are not for the poor and sad: the lords of the earth are our kinsfolk.

II,19: Is a God to live in a dog? No! but the highest are of us. They shall rejoice, our chosen: who sorroweth is not of us.

II,20: Beauty and strength, leaping laughter and delicious languor, force and fire, are of us.
27

II,21: We have nothing with the outcast and the unfit: let them die in their misery. For they feel not. Compassion is the vice of kings: stamp down the wretched & the weak: this is the law of the strong: this is our law and the joy of the world. Think not, o king, upon that lie: That Thou Must Die: verily thou shalt not die, but live. Now let it be understood: If the body of the King dissolve, he shall remain in pure ecstasy for ever. Nuit! Hadit! Ra-Hoor-Khuit! The Sun, Strength & Sight, Light; these are for the servants of the Star & the Snake.
28

II,22: I am the Snake that giveth Knowledge & Delight and bright glory, and stir the hearts of men with drunkenness. To worship me take wine and strange drugs whereof I will tell my prophet, & be drunk thereof! They shall not harm ye at all. It is a lie, this folly against self. The exposure of innocence is a lie. Be strong, o man! lust, enjoy all things of sense and rapture: fear not that any God shall deny thee for this.

II,23: I am alone: there is no God where I am.

II,24: Behold! these be grave mysteries; for there are also of my friends who be hermits. Now think not to find them in the forest or on the mountain; but in beds of purple, caressed by magnificent beasts of women with large limbs, and fire and light in their eyes, and masses of flaming hair about them; there shall ye find them. Ye shall see them at rule, at victorious armies, at all the joy; and there shall be in them a joy a million times greater than this. Beware lest any force another, King against King! Love one another with burning hearts; on the low men trample in the fierce lust of your pride, in the day of your wrath.
30

II,25: Ye are against the people, O my chosen!

II,26: I am the secret Serpent coiled about to spring: in my coiling there is joy. If I lift up my head, I and my Nuit are one. If I droop down mine head, and shoot forth venom, then is rapture of the earth, and I and the earth are one.

II,27: There is great danger in me; for who doth not understand these runes shall make a great miss. He shall fall down into the pit called Because, and there he shall perish with the dogs of Reason.
31

II,28: Now a curse upon Because and his kin!

II,29: May Because be accursèd for ever!

II,30: If Will stops and cries Why, invoking Because, then Will stops & does nought.

II,31: If Power asks why, then is Power weakness.

II,32: Also reason is a lie; for there is a factor infinite & unknown; & all their words are skew-wise.

II,33: Enough of Because! Be he damned for a dog!

II,34: But ye, o my people, rise up & awake!

II,35: Let the rituals be rightly performed with joy & beauty!
32

II,36: There are rituals of the elements and feasts of the times.

II,37: A feast for the first night of the Prophet and his Bride!

II,38: A feast for the three days of the writing of the Book of the Law.

II,39: A feast for Tahuti and the child of the Prophet\u2014secret, O Prophet!

II,40: A feast for the Supreme Ritual, and a feast for the Equinox of the Gods.

II,41: A feast for fire and a feast for water; a feast for life and a greater feast for death!
33

II,42: A feast every day in your hearts in the joy of my rapture!

II,43: A feast every night unto Nu, and the pleasure of uttermost delight!

II,44: Aye! feast! rejoice! there is no dread hereafter. There is the dissolution, and eternal ecstasy in the kisses of Nu.

II,45: There is death for the dogs.

II,46: Dost thou fail? Art thou sorry? Is fear in thine heart?

II,47: Where I am these are not.
34

II,48: Pity not the fallen! I never knew them. I am not for them. I console not: I hate the consoled & the consoler.

II,49: I am unique & conqueror. I am not of the slaves that perish. Be they damned & dead! Amen. (This is of the 4: there is a fifth who is invisible, & therein am I as a babe in an egg.)

II,50: Blue am I and gold in the light of my bride: but the red gleam is in my eyes; & my spangles are purple & green.

II,51: Purple beyond purple: it is the light higher than eyesight.
35

II,52: There is a veil: that veil is black. It is the veil of the modest woman; it is the veil of sorrow, & the pall of death: this is none of me. Tear down that lying spectre of the centuries: veil not your vices in virtuous words: these vices are my service; ye do well, & I will reward you here and hereafter.

II,53: Fear not, o prophet, when these words are said, thou shalt not be sorry. Thou art emphatically my chosen; and blessed are the eyes that thou shalt look upon with gladness. But I will hide thee in a mask of sorrow: they that see thee shall fear thou art fallen: but I lift thee up.
36

II,54: Nor shall they who cry aloud their folly that thou meanest nought avail; thou shall reveal it: thou availest: they are the slaves of because: They are not of me. The stops as thou wilt; the letters? change them not in style or value!

II,55: Thou shalt obtain the order & value of the English Alphabet; thou shalt find new symbols to attribute them unto.
37

II,56: Begone! ye mockers; even though ye laugh in my honour ye shall laugh not long: then when ye are sad know that I have forsaken you.

II,57: He that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that is filthy shall be filthy still.

II,58: Yea! deem not of change: ye shall be as ye are, & not other. Therefore the kings of the earth shall be Kings for ever: the slaves shall serve. There is none that shall be cast down or lifted up: all is ever as it was. Yet there are masked ones my servants: it may be that yonder beggar is a King. A King may choose his garment as he will: there is no certain test: but a beggar cannot hide his poverty.
38

II,59: Beware therefore! Love all, lest perchance is a King concealed! Say you so? Fool! If he be a King, thou canst not hurt him.

II,60: Therefore strike hard & low, and to hell with them, master!

II,61: There is a light before thine eyes, o prophet, a light undesired, most desirable.

II,62: I am uplifted in thine heart; and the kisses of the stars rain hard upon thy body.
39

II,63: Thou art exhaust in the voluptuous fullness of the inspiration; the expiration is sweeter than death, more rapid and laughterful than a caress of Hell's own worm.

II,64: Oh! thou art overcome: we are upon thee; our delight is all over thee: hail! hail: prophet of Nu! prophet of Had! prophet of Ra-Hoor-Khu! Now rejoice! now come in our splendour & rapture! Come in our passionate peace, & write sweet words for the Kings!
40

II,65: I am the Master: thou art the Holy Chosen One.

II,66: Write, & find ecstasy in writing! Work, & be our bed in working! Thrill with the joy of life & death! Ah! thy death shall be lovely: whoso seeth it shall be glad. Thy death shall be the seal of the promise of our agelong love. Come! lift up thine heart & rejoice! We are one; we are none.

II,67: Hold! Hold! Bear up in thy rapture; fall not in swoon of the excellent kisses!

II,68: Harder! Hold up thyself! Lift thine head! breathe not so deep\u2014die!
41

II,69: Ah! Ah! What do I feel? Is the word exhausted?

II,70: There is help & hope in other spells. Wisdom says: be strong! Then canst thou bear more joy. Be not animal; refine thy rapture! If thou drink, drink by the eight and ninety rules of art: if thou love, exceed by delicacy; and if thou do aught joyous, let there be subtlety therein!

II,71: But exceed! exceed!

II,72: Strive ever to more! and if thou art truly mine\u2014and doubt it not, an if thou art ever joyous!\u2014death is the crown of all.
42

II,73: Ah! Ah! Death! Death! thou shalt long for death. Death is forbidden, o man, unto thee.

II,74: The length of thy longing shall be the strength of its glory. He that lives long & desires death much is ever the King among the Kings.

II,75: Aye! listen to the numbers & the words:

II,76: 4 6 3 8 A B K 2 4 A L G M O R 3 Y X 24 89 R P S T O V A L. What meaneth this, o prophet? Thou knowest not; nor shalt thou know ever. There cometh one to follow thee: he shall expound it. But remember, o chosen one, to be me; to follow the love of Nu in the star-lit heaven; to look forth upon men, to tell them this glad word.
43

II,77: O be thou proud and mighty among men!

II,78: Lift up thyself! for there is none like unto thee among men or among Gods! Lift up thyself, o my prophet, thy stature shall surpass the stars. They shall worship thy name, foursquare, mystic, wonderful, the number of the man; and the name of thy house 418.
44

II,79: The end of the hiding of Hadit; and blessing & worship to the prophet of the lovely Star!
Chapter III
45

III,1: Abrahadabra; the reward of Ra Hoor Khut.

III,2: There is division hither homeward; there is a word not known. Spelling is defunct; all is not aught. Beware! Hold! Raise the spell of Ra-Hoor-Khuit!

III,3: Now let it be first understood that I am a god of War and of Vengeance. I shall deal hardly with them.

III,4: Choose ye an island!

III,5: Fortify it!

III,6: Dung it about with enginery of war!

III,7: I will give you a war-engine.

III,8: With it ye shall smite the peoples; and none shall stand before you.
46

III,9: Lurk! Withdraw! Upon them! this is the Law of the Battle of Conquest: thus shall my worship be about my secret house.

III,10: Get the stélé of revealing itself; set it in thy secret temple\u2014and that temple is already aright disposed\u2014& it shall be your Kiblah for ever. It shall not fade, but miraculous colour shall come back to it day after day. Close it in locked glass for a proof to the world.

III,11: This shall be your only proof. I forbid argument. Conquer! That is enough. I will make easy to you the abstruction from the ill-ordered house in the Victorious City. Thou shalt thyself convey it with worship, o prophet, though thou likest it not. Thou shalt have danger & trouble. Ra-Hoor-Khu is with thee. Worship me with fire & blood; worship me with swords & with spears. Let the woman be girt with a sword before me: let blood flow to my name. Trample down the Heathen; be upon them, o warrior, I will give you of their flesh to eat!
47

III,12: Sacrifice cattle, little and big: after a child.
48

III,13: But not now.

III,14: Ye shall see that hour, o blessèd Beast, and thou the Scarlet Concubine of his desire!

III,15: Ye shall be sad thereof.

III,16: Deem not too eagerly to catch the promises; fear not to undergo the curses. Ye, even ye, know not this meaning all.

III,17: Fear not at all; fear neither men nor Fates, nor gods, nor anything. Money fear not, nor laughter of the folk folly, nor any other power in heaven or upon the earth or under the earth. Nu is your refuge as Hadit your light; and I am the strength, force, vigour, of your arms.
49

III,18: Mercy let be off: damn them who pity! Kill and torture; spare not; be upon them!

III,19: That stélé they shall call the Abomination of Desolation; count well its name, & it shall be to you as 718.

III,20: Why? Because of the fall of Because, that he is not there again.

III,21: Set up my image in the East: thou shalt buy thee an image which I will show thee, especial, not unlike the one thou knowest. And it shall be suddenly easy for thee to do this.
50

III,22: The other images group around me to support me: let all be worshipped, for they shall cluster to exalt me. I am the visible object of worship; the others are secret; for the Beast & his Bride are they: and for the winners of the Ordeal x. What is this? Thou shalt know.

III,23: For perfume mix meal & honey & thick leavings of red wine: then oil of Abramelin and olive oil, and afterward soften & smooth down with rich fresh blood.

III,24: The best blood is of the moon, monthly: then the fresh blood of a child, or dropping from the host of heaven: then of enemies; then of the priest or of the worshippers: last of some beast, no matter what.
51

III,25: This burn: of this make cakes & eat unto me. This hath also another use; let it be laid before me, and kept thick with perfumes of your orison: it shall become full of beetles as it were and creeping things sacred unto me.

III,26: These slay, naming your enemies; & they shall fall before you.

III,27: Also these shall breed lust & power of lust in you at the eating thereof.

III,28: Also ye shall be strong in war.
52

III,29: Moreover, be they long kept, it is better; for they swell with my force. All before me.

III,30: My altar is of open brass work: burn thereon in silver or gold!

III,31: There cometh a rich man from the West who shall pour his gold upon thee.

III,32: From gold forge steel!

III,33: Be ready to fly or to smite!

III,34: But your holy place shall be untouched throughout the centuries: though with fire and sword it be burnt down & shattered, yet an invisible house there standeth, and shall stand until the fall of the Great Equinox; when Hrumachis shall arise and the double-wanded one assume my throne and place. Another prophet shall arise, and bring fresh fever from the skies; another woman shall awake the lust & worship of the Snake; another soul of God and beast shall mingle in the globèd priest; another sacrifice shall stain the tomb; another king shall reign; and blessing no longer be poured To the Hawk-headed mystical Lord!
53

III,35: The half of the word of Heru-ra-ha, called Hoor-pa-kraat and Ra-Hoor-Khut.
54

III,36: Then said the prophet unto the God:

III,37: I adore thee in the song:\u2014

    I am the Lord of Thebes, and I
      The inspired forth-speaker of Mentu;
    For me unveils the veilèd sky,
      The self-slain Ankh-af-na-khonsu
    Whose words are truth. I invoke, I greet
      Thy presence, O Ra-Hoor-Khuit! 

    Unity uttermost showed!
      I adore the might of Thy breath,
    Supreme and terrible God,
      Who makest the gods and death
    To tremble before Thee\u2014
      I, I adore thee! 

    Appear on the throne of Ra!
      Open the ways of the Khu!
    Lighten the ways of the Ka!
      The ways of the Khabs run through
    To stir me or still me!
      Aum! let it fill me! 

III,38: So that thy light is in me; & its red flame is as a sword in my hand to push thy order. There is a secret door that I shall make to establish thy way in all the quarters, (these are the adorations, as thou hast written), as it is said:

    The light is mine; its rays consume
      Me: I have made a secret door
    Into the House of Ra and Tum,
      Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
    I am thy Theban, O Mentu,
      The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu! 

    By Bes-na-Maut my breast I beat;
      By wise Ta-Nech I weave my spell.
    Show thy star-splendour, O Nuit!
      Bid me within thine House to dwell,
    O wingèd snake of light, Hadit!
      Abide with me, Ra-Hoor-Khuit! 

55

III,39: All this and a book to say how thou didst come hither and a reproduction of this ink and paper for ever \u2014 for in it is the word secret & not only in the English \u2014 and thy comment upon this the Book of the Law shall be printed beautifully in red ink and black upon beautiful paper made by hand; and to each man and woman that thou meetest, were it but to dine or to drink at them, it is the Law to give. Then they shall chance to abide in this bliss or no; it is no odds. Do this quickly!

III,40: But the work of the comment? That is easy; and Hadit burning in thy heart shall make swift and secure thy pen.
56

III,41: Establish at thy Kaaba a clerk-house: all must be done well and with business way.

III,42: The ordeals thou shalt oversee thyself, save only the blind ones. Refuse none, but thou shalt know & destroy the traitors. I am Ra-Hoor-Khuit; and I am powerful to protect my servant. Success is thy proof: argue not; convert not; talk not overmuch! Them that seek to entrap thee, to overthrow thee, them attack without pity or quarter; & destroy them utterly. Swift as a trodden serpent turn and strike! Be thou yet deadlier than he! Drag down their souls to awful torment: laugh at their fear: spit upon them!
57

III,43: Let the Scarlet Woman beware! If pity and compassion and tenderness visit her heart; if she leave my work to toy with old sweetnesses; then shall my vengeance be known. I will slay me her child: I will alienate her heart: I will cast her out from men: as a shrinking and despised harlot shall she crawl through dusk wet streets, and die cold and an-hungered.
58

III,44: But let her raise herself in pride! Let her follow me in my way! Let her work the work of wickedness! Let her kill her heart! Let her be loud and adulterous! Let her be covered with jewels, and rich garments, and let her be shameless before all men!

III,45: Then will I lift her to pinnacles of power: then will I breed from her a child mightier than all the kings of the earth. I will fill her with joy: with my force shall she see & strike at the worship of Nu: she shall achieve Hadit.
59

III,46: I am the warrior Lord of the Forties: the Eighties cower before me, & are abased. I will bring you to victory & joy: I will be at your arms in battle & ye shall delight to slay. Success is your proof; courage is your armour; go on, go on, in my strength; & ye shall turn not back for any!

III,47: This book shall be translated into all tongues: but always with the original in the writing of the Beast; for in the chance shape of the letters and their position to one another: in these are mysteries that no Beast shall divine. Let him not seek to try: but one cometh after him, whence I say not, who shall discover the Key of it all. Then this line drawn is a key: then this circle squared in its failure is a key also. And Abrahadabra. It shall be his child & that strangely. Let him not seek after this; for thereby alone can he fall from it.
61

III,48: Now this mystery of the letters is done, and I want to go on to the holier place.

III,49: I am in a secret fourfold word, the blasphemy against all gods of men.

III,50: Curse them! Curse them! Curse them!

III,51: With my Hawk's head I peck at the eyes of Jesus as he hangs upon the cross.

III,52: I flap my wings in the face of Mohammed & blind him.

III,53: With my claws I tear out the flesh of the Indian and the Buddhist, Mongol and Din.

III,54: Bahlasti! Ompehda! I spit on your crapulous creeds.
62

III,55: Let Mary inviolate be torn upon wheels: for her sake let all chaste women be utterly despised among you!

III,56: Also for beauty's sake and love's!

III,57: Despise also all cowards; professional soldiers who dare not fight, but play; all fools despise!

III,58: But the keen and the proud, the royal and the lofty; ye are brothers!

III,59: As brothers fight ye!

III,60: There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.

III,61: There is an end of the word of the God enthroned in Ra's seat, lightening the girders of the soul.
63

III,62: To Me do ye reverence! to me come ye through tribulation of ordeal, which is bliss.

III,63: The fool readeth this Book of the Law, and its comment; & he understandeth it not.

III,64: Let him come through the first ordeal, & it will be to him as silver.

III,65: Through the second, gold.

III,66: Through the third, stones of precious water.

III,67: Through the fourth, ultimate sparks of the intimate fire.
64

III,68: Yet to all it shall seem beautiful. Its enemies who say not so, are mere liars.

III,69: There is success.

III,70: I am the Hawk-Headed Lord of Silence & of Strength; my nemyss shrouds the night-blue sky.

III,71: Hail! ye twin warriors about the pillars of the world! for your time is nigh at hand.

III,72: I am the Lord of the Double Wand of Power; the wand of the Force of Coph Nia\u2014but my left hand is empty, for I have crushed an Universe; & nought remains.
65

III,73: Paste the sheets from right to left and from top to bottom: then behold!

III,74: There is a splendour in my name hidden and glorious, as the sun of midnight is ever the son.

III,75: The ending of the words is the Word Abrahadabra.

The Book of the Law is Written
and Concealed.
Aum. Ha.
The Comment

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

The study of this Book is forbidden. It is wise to destroy this copy after the first reading.

Whosoever disregards this does so at his own risk and peril. These are most dire.

Those who discuss the contents of this Book are to be shunned by all, as centres of pestilence.

All questions of the Law are to be decided only by appeal to my writings, each for himself.

There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.

Love is the law, love under will.

The priest of the princes,
ANKH-F-N-KHONSU
Valid HTML 4.01!

Template "/l220.html" last modified Sat May 28 23:15:51 2005
All material © 1996-2005 by Ordo Templi Orientis.
Ordo Templi Orientis, O.T.O., and the O.T.O. Lamen are registered trademarks of Ordo Templi Orientis.
Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica is a registered trademark of Ordo Templi Orientis USA.
Webmaster email: webmaster@oto-usa.org
'" -- oto-usa.org
