
http://www.gold-eagle.com/gold_digest/alberta1030.html:
"'
Trick or Treat?

Novus Ordo Seclorum* and China

(*) novus ordo seclorum: meaining "new world or secular order"
appears on the back of US One Dollar Bills

    on the eve of the Hallowed Eve...October 30, 1997

    The coincidence of the bungy chord antics of world markets on Monday October 27 and Tuesday October 28, 1997 and the highly suspicious Swiss "intention" to sell gold the prior week sinking gold to 10 year lows increasingly points to the possibility that the secular world is engaging as it should or as it is planned. Alan Greenspan in his October 29th address acknowledged the current turmoil in world stock markets, but said the turbulence might look like a "salutary event" (for good purpose) in a few years. What may we ask Mr. Greenspan is the desired outcome of such good purposed events? Even some doubting and pragmatic goldbugs are now wondering about the peculiar timing of the Swiss intention to sell gold no sooner than 1999 and the decompression of the Hong Kong and Asian markets. Are these events part of an orchestrated web of planned chess moves by some enlightened fraternity; part of a massive confidence game being waged on a scale unprecedented in human history for the holy grail: novus ordo seclorum (the new world order)? Gold, the ancient precious metal, in its contrary actions to the fiat currency markets, continues to provide startling insights into the "why" of current geopolitical events.

    My intent is to take macro geopolitical analysis to the wall by mixing revealed evidence (present and past) with intuition to provide oracular insights into understanding the events of today.

    Oracles of old were gifted with insights and prophecy which others were free to accept or reject.

    Two Scorpions

    In previous articles I suggested there are two titans who could be preparing for engagement in the global end games whose pearl of great price is global dominion over financial, economic, political, and religious systems. These two scorpions, as imiscible as oil and water, are the Novus Ordo Seclorum fraternity (including the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, J.P. Morgan dynasty, George Soros (mercenary of the Rothschilds), Henry Kissinger and others) and China, the ancient dragon. Novus Ordo Saecularis ¾ the "new world order" fraternity (part of a network of secretive policy groups such as the Council on Foreign Relations, Trilateral Commission and the highly secretive Bilderberg meetings) yield unfathomable and unaccounted control over western financial circles with tenacles deeply entrenched in the U.S. Federal Reserve System, Bank of England, Bank of France, and other European and Swiss banking institutions. Their roots date back to the Illuminati (the enligthened ones) and Free Masonry in Europe in the 18th century.

    The second scorpion is China (the ancient Dragon), the most populace country on earth and increasingly flexing its new economic muscles. An article in the Economist several years ago suggested that if the G-7 debt game stops, it may be China left alone on the sidelines of the dance floor. China may indeed stand on the sidelines of the chess game attempting to avoid the subjugation of the other scorpion. China, however, has enormous economic power, a virtually self-sustaining economy, the largest standing army in the world, holds significant amounts of U.S. debt, has reputed to be loading up on gold, and has supposedly rendered special electoral favours to President Clinton. But can China avoid the powerful grip of the other scorpion?

    Novus Ordo Seclorum - The New World Order

    The latin words "novus ordo seclorum" appear on the back of the US one dollar bill, below the pyramid and all-seeing eye. Above the pyramid are the latin words "annuit coeptis" (meaning annual assembly of enemies or friends)? Novus is latin for new or extraodinary; ordo means order, rank or class; seclorum or saecularis means relating to the world or secular age (it also refers to intervals of 100 years). Thus you have the assembly of the NEW WORLD ORDER. At the base of the pyramid are the Roman numerals for 1776.

    I hypothesize that the Novus Ordo Seclorum is an old fraternal brotherhood of elites or enlightened ones (illuminatus) dedicated to a single goal: a the new world order or global union. This order would include a single global financial system and removal of all national boundaries to investment and trade. President Bush, in his inaugural address, used the words "the new world order" and "a thousand points of light." What exactly was he referring to? Why did these words suddenly appear on the geopolitical landscape?

    In 1776, the same year of the founding of the U.S., another important event occurred, the founding of the Illuminati -- meaning per Webster Dictionary: 1. a people who have or profess to have special intellectual or spiritual enlightenment or 2. Any of various societies, usually secretive, composed of such people. Illuminatus is the latin word for "light", hence the interesting concurrence between George Bushes famous inaugral line of "a thousand points of light." Founded in 1776 (the same year which appears at the base of the pyramid on the US $1 bill) by Adam Weishaupt in Germany. The Illuminati became a fraternity of brothers, with ties to Free Masonry in England, France and Germany, and involving such families as the Rothschilds.

    Some claim that George Bush, Henry Kissinger, the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, J.P. Morgan descendants, George Soros and other enligthened elites are part of a tightly knit fraternity who secretively meet to set global policy through the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations. Is this the fraternity from which a thousand points of light eminates? The masterful construction of global systems such as the rush to a Multilateral Agreement on Investment, Free Trade agreements, and electronic fund transfer systems development or a single global electronic currency should be considered with suspicion given that the media has helped to gain our consent to accept these new systems as good and for "salutary" reasons.

    The recent exposés by the Red Baron on Gold Eagle of the operations of the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA), controlled historically and currently primarily by the Rothschild house, are reasons to remain suspicious and alert.

    The recent announcement of the Swiss follows remarkably close on the heals of calamities in Asian markets and currencies. The confidence game is being exercised par excellence. One has to suspect the concurrence of these major events, their timing, and speed of introduction (e.g. the MAI) and their subsequent profound impact on the world. One must ask why now and to what end? Some might discount these suspicions of colluding forces as the ranting of a conspiracy fool. One cannot, however, discount the allure of power, wealth, and money which motivates men of the secular world who pursue the holiest of holies: absolute system control.

    Was George Bush foreshadowing the coming new world order with the Illuminati (the enlightened ones) bringing us "a thousand points of light" to show us the way? One must wonder why a common chorus is being sung as to the merits and benefits of global union, global common systems, and free trade marketed as the rational choice for all humankind to embrace. What we may now be witnessing is the final brush strokes of the master Illuminati, having created illusions and manufactured our consent through the power of affirmation, reptition, prestige and contagion. While we are asked to believe that hiearchies are being deconstructed, the reality is anything but that. A new "tower of Babel" is likely being systematically constructed with the ability to concentrate power and control through common systems.

    As Noam Chomsky says, the capacity of the media and the elite to control thought and manufacture our consent in democratic societies is subtle and constant. To believe that the world is otherwise, is to live under the spell of illusion ¾ under the spell of the Wizards of Oz.

    The Wonderful Wizards of OZ (Gold)

    Frank Baum in his early 20th century popular children's novels about the Wonderful Wizard of Oz (OZ being short for ounces of gold) was actually a political satire inspired by the defeat of presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan in 1896 over the raging bimetalism debate (the struggle over gold or silver or both as standard backing of the US currency) (for an excellent synopsis of the bimetalism struggle see: http://www.switzerland.isyours.com/FXM/MH/Crime/index.htm). Bimetalism had been established under the original US constitution where gold and/or or silver would back the US currency. The decision to remove the American Dollar from bimetallism had been made in 1873 and did not have immediate consequences since silver was undervalued at the legal ratio and nobody used it anyway. But as one country after the other switched to the gold standard at the end of the century, the demand for gold rose tremendously and a flow of silver was freed from monetary purposes in France, England, Germany and most other big countries.

    Bryan made these famous remarks in a nomination speech:

        A bimetallic standard is a monetary standard where the monetary unit is defined as consisting of either a certain amount of a metal or a certain amount of another, with the monetary authority being ready at all times to coin either metal at the legal price. For example, in the United States for the greater part of the 19th century (1792 to be exact) the dollar was defined as consisting either of 22.5 grains of gold or 371 grains of silver (a grain is 0.065 grams). People could bring gold or silver bars at the Mint (the agency responsible for coining money) and they would get gold or silver dollar coins in exchange.

    "Therefore, we care not upon what lines the battle is fought. If they say bimetallism is good, but that we cannot have it until other nations help us, we reply that, instead of having a gold standard because England has, we will restore bimetallism, and then let England have bimetallism because the United States has it. If they dare to come out in the open field and defend the gold standard as a good thing, we will fight them to the uttermost. Having behind us the producing masses of this nation and the world, supported by the commercial interests, the laboring interests and the toilers everywhere, we will answer their demand for a gold standard by saying to them: You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns, you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold."

    Are we even now being crucified upon a cross of gold? Ironically, the final defeat of bimetalism with the defeat of Bryan by McKinley put the United States on the same gold standard as England and France, the countries most influenced by old merchant banking powers of Europe, most importantly the Rothschilds. The fraternity of gold merchants and merchant bankers (the Rothschilds, J.P. Morgan, and the Rockefellers) undoubtedly supported the gold standard in the U.S., as they did in England and France and had thus succeeded in moving ever closer to their longer term objectives of Novus Ordo Seclorum.

    Some may discount the defeat of bimetalism and establishment of the gold standard as unimportant, however, President John F. Kennedy presumably knew something about the importance of bimetalism. In his Presidential Executive Order 11110 issued on June 4, 1963 Kennedy essentially attempted to reinstate the bimetalism standard ordering the Treasury to issue silver backed notes. Between June 4 and November 21, 1963 roughly $4.3 billion in $2 and $5 in "Treasury Notes" were issued (some are still in circulation distinguished by the words "Treasury Note" on the back versus "Federal Reserve Note"). Kennedy's order ceased being exercised following his assassination even though it remains open as a U.S. code of law. Who would have lost the most from E.O. 11110 if not those who benefit directly from the issue of Federal Reserve notes. The names of those key shareholders, as alluded to in earlier articles, will never be revealed in the mainstream media nor after repeated requests of the Federal Reserve Board. To understand who those players are and their

        Executive Order 11110, 28 F.R. 5605 (relating to performance of certain functions of Department of Treasury) reads as follows: "The authority vested in the President by paragraph (b) of section 43 of the Act of May 12, 1933 (under President Roosevelt), as ammended to issue silver certificates against any silver bullion, silver, or standard silver dollars in the Treasury no then held for redemption of any outstanding silver certificates, to prescribe the denominations of such silver certificates, and to coin standard silver dollars and subsidiary sliver currency for their redemption."

    motivation read the autobiographical books on J. P. Morgan (The House of Morgan: An Ameican Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance by Ron Chernow) and The Rothschilds by Frederic Morton. What you will learn is that those with power will go to great lengths to protect their wealth under the romantic illusion that their dynasties have been relegated to the dustbins of history. Question the illusion.

    Finally, the reader must be reminded that in 1933, President Roosevelt issued Executive Orders (6073, 6102, etc.), that under the conditions of a state of emergency (read: the country is bankrupt), ordering all persons (U.S. citizens) to deliver "on or before May 1, 1933 all gold coins, gold bullion, and gold certificates....to a Federal Reserve Bank or member of the Federal Reserve System." It became illegal to own gold. Ironically, Chinese President Jiang Zemin is now a student of Roosevelt and his policy directives.

    George Soros...the Mercenary of the Illuminated Ones

    George Soros has recently been pictured as a modern day "Robin Hood" and is legendary for his acumen as an international currency trader. But who is George Soros and from whence comes his enlightenment? - see http://home1.pacific.net.sg/~viclim/inv0000c.htm for an exhaustive and well researched expose on Soros). According to these sources, George Soros is intimately connected to the most important merchant banking power of Europe, N.M. Rothschild & Sons, which might help to explain his uncanny timing in currency markets.

    The following are quotations from the study by Executive Intelligence Review of November, 1996 by William Engdahl et.al.: "Soros has let his name be publicly used in a blatant attempt to influence world financial markets---an out-of-character act for most financial investors, who prefer to take advantage of situations not yet discovered by rivals, and keep them secret. Soros the financier is as much a political animal, as a financial speculator.

    Soros proclaimed in March 1993, with great publicity, that the price of gold was about to rise sharply; he said that he had just gotten "inside information" that China was about to buy huge sums of gold for its booming economy. Soros was able to trigger a rush into buying gold, which caused prices to rise more than 20% over four months, to the highest level since 1991. Typically for Soros, once the fools rushed in to push prices higher, Soros and his friend Sir James Goldsmith secretly began selling their gold at a huge profit."

    According to Engdahl it was the Rothschilds who helped launch Soros' career.

    "They (Rothschilds) are members of the Club of the Isles and retainers of the British royal family. This has been true since Amschel Rothschild sold the British Hessian troops to fight against George Washington during the American Revolution.

    Understandably, Soros and the Rothschild interests prefer to keep their connection hidden far from public view, so as to obscure the well-connected friends Soros enjoys in the City of London, the British Foreign Office, Israel, and the U.S. financial establishment. The myth, therefore, has been created, that Soros is a lone financial investment "genius" who, through his sheer personal brilliance in detecting shifts in markets, has become one of the world's most successful speculators. According to those who have done business with him, Soros never makes a major investment move without sensitive insider information.

    On the board of directors of Soros's Quantum Fund N.V. is Richard Katz, a Rothschild man who is also on the board of the London N.M. Rothschild and Sons merchant bank, and the head of Rothschild Italia S.p.A. of Milan. Another Rothschild family link to Soros's Quantum Fund is Quantum board member Nils O. Taube, the partner of the London investment group St. James Place Capital, whose major partner is Lord Rothschild. London Times columnist Lord William Rees-Mogg is also on the board of Rothschild's St. James Place Capital.

    A frequent business partner of Soros in various speculative deals, including in the 1993 gold manipulation, although not on the Quantum Fund directly, is the Anglo-French speculator Sir James Goldsmith, a cousin of the Rothschild family.

    From the very first days when Soros created his own investment fund in 1969, he owed his success to his relation to the Rothschild family banking network. Soros worked in New York in the 1960s for a small private bank close to the Rothschilds, Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder, Inc., a banking family which represented Rothschild interests in Germany during Bismarck's time. To this day, A. & S. Bleichroeder, Inc. remains the Principal Custodian, along with Citibank, of funds of Soros's Quantum Fund. George C. Karlweiss, of Edmond de Rothschild's Switzerland-based Banque Privee SA in Lugano, as well as of the scandal-tainted Rothschild Bank AG of Zurich, gave Soros financial backing. Karlweiss provided some of the vital initial capital and investors for Soros's Quantum Fund.

    Soros's relation to the Rothschild finance circle represents no ordinary or casual banking connection. It goes a long way to explain the extraordinary success of a mere private speculator, and Soros's uncanny ability to "gamble right" so many times in such high-risk markets. Soros has access to the "insider track" in some of the most important government and private channels in the world.

    Since World War II, the Rothschild family, at the heart of the financial apparatus of the Club of the Isles, has gone to great lengths to create a public myth about its own insignificance. The family has spent significant sums cultivating a public image as a family of wealthy, but quiet, "gentlemen," some of whom prefer to cultivate fine French wines, some of whom are devoted to charity.

    Like Nathan Rothschild of London of old, who could single handly manipulate London markets and benefited from advanced knowledge of Napoleons defeat, Soros is a gifted student of Rothschild antics. Soros' uncanny ability as a currency trader might well be explained by his connections to the Rothschilds and the LBMA.

    There is one difference between a Soros and a Rothschild: Soros is prone to pride, arrogance, and bragging; Rothschilds are notorious for keeping wealth and information within the male members of the family circle and maintaining secrecy and illusion in order to protect the incredible wealth of the dynasty of Mayer Amschel Rothschild.

    The Red Shield (Rothschild)

    For those who subscribe to the Book of Revelations in the Holy Bible as prophetic portents of the end times, a very coincidental relationship between the colors of the Rothschild family shield and the colors of the armies of the "beast" of Revelations occurs. Firstly, "rot" means red in German and "schild" means shield in German...thus you have the Red Shields. The coat of arms of the Rothschild family is blue (hyacinth) and yellow. Quoting from the Book of Revelations Chapter 9: verse 17 "Now in my vision this is how I saw the horses and their riders (the troop of 200 million soldiers of the Beast). They wore red, blue (hyacinth), and yellow breastplates...." Mere coincidence? Was Revelations foreshadowing the role of the Red Shields (Rothschilds) in current events?

    The Dragon (China)

    Have you ever wondered why the dragon is the symbol associated with China. Why a mythical creature? How does China factor into the geopolitical landscape, and is it the second scorpion? These remain the most perplexing questions of our day.

    In the Book of Revelations (Chpt. 13; vs. 4) it is written "they worshipped the dragon because it gave its authority to the beast; they also worshipped the beast and said, "who can compare with the beast or who can fight against it?" Is the dragon China? Does the "beast", and its colors, blue and yellow, represent power, wealth, and money associated with the Rothschilds (who bear the same colors in their coat of arms)? Perhaps blue and yellow are the colors of money. Indeed, who can fight against the powers of the Rothschilds, the Rockefellers, J.P. Morgans of the world and certainly no one can compare with them. China itself is consumed with the same objectives of economic prosperity, accumulation of wealth, and personal consumption as their brethren in Euro-American circles. While China may still avoid any financial market calamaties which rock the western economies, it now worships the same objectives of the West: money.

    What China longs for is no doubt a share of the domain which has been the exclusive fraternity of Novus Ordo Seclorum. Jiang is himself studying the actions of President Roosevelt who ultimately gave increasing powers to the merchant banking powers to which the U.S. is ultimately still indebted. Jiang will visit the temple of power and wealth, Wall Street and the New York Stock Exchange, on the auspicious day of Halloween. Perhaps he will be viewing Gone with the Wind on the eve of his visit. Jiang most certainly has a tremendous sense of humour, but must be considered extremely dangerous to the first scorpion.

    The two scorpions are as immiscible as water and oil. No doubt the U.S. and its allies (including the new world order fraternity) cannot ignore the Chinese at this juncture but would rather keep them from drinking from the holy grail of the novus seclorum fraternity. The Chinese would want nothing more than to strike a vengeful blow against the British over Hong Kong and the U.S. over Taiwan and it's domination of financial currency markets in Asia and abroad. China may no longer need the U.S. and its fiat currency and paper markets given that it has become a virtual self-sustaining 1.2 billion populace economy.

    One thing is certain about the Chinese, they are extremely patient and love to gamble. Their game of chess is at least as clever as that which the Illuminati have played since 1776.

    Trick or Treat: Jiang Visits Wall Street on Halloween

    As President Jiang Zemin's visit to Wall Street approaches, the following humorous reference to President Jiang appeared in Monday's October 27 Chicago Tribune by Liz Sly:

    "What (President) Jiang lacks in vision he makes up for with party tricks. To lighten the mood at diplomatic gatherings, he likes to burst into song. His favourite is Swanee River. ....He may feel inspirted to sing for Clinton, diplomats say. He is also an American history buff. He has recently been reading up about Franklin Roosevelt, to learn from his handling of America's depression and stock-market crash. Gone with the Wind is said to be his favourite movie!

    Does Jiang have a great sense of humour or impeccable timing? As Hong Kong markets are under attack, from where we cannot say it is ironic that Jiang finds himself in the holiest of holy sites in Capitaldom, the New York Stock Exchange. A Trojan Horse trick or a treat? While China courts capitalism and the lure of wealth and money its enlightened leaders maintain strict and sometimes ruthless control over its 1.2 billion people.

    Is it not ironic that on the eve of Jiang's visit to the hallowed halls of capitalism that Jiang has become a student of Franklin Roosevelt who himself ordered, following the market crash of 1929, the seizure of all gold assets to be handed over to the Federal Reserve banks and their shareholders. It was Roosevelt who effectively established the current run-away U.S. debt train.

    The illuminated wizards of the Novus Ordo Seclorum fraternity are undoubtedly busier than ever serving up illusions and other witches brew.

    Happy Halloween!

    Trick or Treat?

    Oracle of Alberta

    October 30, 1997


    Also by Oracle of Alberta:
    On the Side of Golden Angels

    Ode to Joy

    Seven Golden Threads of the Global Quilt


Copyright  ©  1997 - 1999  vronsky  and  westerman
'"
