Related: mail, pinyon

"'
Pine nuts, Politics and Public Lands

Last year we imported 8 million pounds of pine nuts from seven countries. Prior to World War II, millions of pounds of fresh American pine nuts were harvested here and available to U.S. consumers. What happen to our own pine nut harvest?
All pine trees reproduce through creating a nut in a cone. Some of these pine nuts are tasty and nutritious - others cost more in calories to collect, than they yield. The pinenuts purchased at a grocery, could be from any one of the 28 species, grown in about 7 countries. Each species with a different , shape, texture, flavor and nutritional value.

The Department of Commerce reports that foreign countries ship us, 8 million pounds of pinenuts each year. China provides most of the imported nuts, with Italy, Pakistan and Portugal, each being a major exporter of pinenuts. Because the shell amounts to 25% of the shipping weight, most nuts are sold with the shells removed. Once the shell has been removed, the nut must be preserved. Pine nuts are preserved, according to methods of the exporting country. Certain methods of preservation would not be allowed here, like the use of lye as preservative. Unless you live in the Southwest, or are over the age of 70, chances are you have never had a fresh, unprocessed pinenut. One might compare this to never having eaten a fresh strawberry, but consuming only dried or frozen fruit. Yet, two American species of pine nuts grow wild on 47 million acres of public land. It is a native plant, with tremendous range, outstanding nutritional value, and highly sought after in foreign countries. Why then are we importing so many pine nuts?



	POLITICS OF PUBLIC LAND and Special Interests

The politics of the Western cattle industry and public land grazing is the primary reason From 1950-72 the USFS and BLM cleared ("chained") over 3,211,000 acres of pinion-juniper to create grazing land. Before the huge corporations controlled grazing permits, pine nuts were harvested by the box car load and readily available. Those were the days before the chain-saw, bull dozer, massive herbicide treatments, the American Cattle’s Association and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The days before large expanses of maturing pine nut trees were destroyed to grow grass for cattle --- at taxpayer expense.
Pinyon pinenuts sustained the native peoples of the Great Basin for over 10,000 years. The soft-shelled pinyon pinenut, (p.monophylla) provided primary protein to the Shoshone, Piautes and Washo peoples, containing substantial amounts of the amino acids necessary for human growth. It was a sacred part of the way they lived. Between 1865 to 1877, Native lands had been overrun with cattle and sheep. The pinion pines, which they depended upon for a pine nut crop each fall, were rapidly being cut down for fuel for the mine smelters. Smelting a ton of ore required from twenty-five to thirty-five bushels of charcoal. The mills at Eureka consumed as much as 1.25 million bushels of charcoal a year, destroying the Indians' pine nut groves .

Certain treaties and Nevada laws provide harvest rights to Natives. The Native Peoples have never fought for those rights. The Federal Government cannot be guaranteed economic control of the pinenut harvest.
	Corporate cattlemen pay minimal grazing fees and the taxpayers subsidize the land treatment, to create the gazing lands, yet cattle won, hands down, over pinenuts as a public land use.
Most public lands managers are educated as range managers, rather than foresters. Range managers see it as their self-imposed duty to create and maintain range, which can also be called pasture. Millions and millions of acres of pinyon forests were bulldozed, chained, poisoned and subjected to prescribed burning to create pasture land for cattle. Beginning in the 1960 ‘s the pinyon tree were treated as a invasive weed, interfering with the forage available for cattle.
Range managers were never educated about the massive deforestation caused 1800’s mining industry which fueled the silver smelters with pinyon charcoal at a rates up to 450 acres per day. Nor, have they been taught that the p.monophylla life cycle requires between 100 and 150 years to reach seed bearing maturity, then cones on a 5 year cycle, with three seasons required to produce the nut in the cone. Most have never read the research reports that state pinenut production potential revenues could exceed grazing revenues by 148 to 500 times over. Or, that pinenuts are 28 times more earth efficient in terms of acreage used to produce pounds of protein than beef.
The Great Basin was a semi-arid forest and native peoples could always find a harvest of pinenuts, before white settlement. The pinyon never recovered from demands made upon it by the mining industry of the 1800’s. The large, mature seedstock trees had been depleted from all but the most inaccessible areas of the forest. As the cattlemen came in, the land was manipulated to yield grasses, rather than forest. The grasslands dry out and die, rather than maintain the moisture content, like trees. The pasture land has become part of the catalyst for huge fires in
Nevada.
Land managers again, rather than looking to long term historical land composition, used faulty logic to justify treatment projects as landscape restoration, creating more grassland and flash fuel. Deforestation. This in turn, dramatically reduced the mature pine nut bearing tree.
One can obtain more information about pinyon pine nuts and public land activism from www.pinenut.com. The owners of that site are environmentalist working to promote wild food as an alternative to cattle grazing.

Penny Frazier is independent environmental advocate, who has spent the last 8 years working to create change on public lands. She is a former litigation paralegal and the owner of the www.pinenut.com . She actively participates in public land management NEPA proceedings, receiving training and encouragement from the Committee for Idaho's High Desert (www.CIHD.org) . She works at respecting the Western Shoshone Nation and supports justice for their Land Settlement Claims.

'" -- http://www.pinenut.com/art2.htm




PINUS EDULIS

"'

 

Home

Grasses and
Grass Likes

Forbs/Herbaceous

Shrubs and Trees

Alphabetical Index by Common Name

Alphabetical Index by Scientific Name

Credits/References


This web page made possible by a cooperative effort between:

USU EXTENSION
Mindy Pratt
Jim Bowns
Roger Banner
Allen Rasmussen

with photos provided by:
Intermountain Herbarium
Roger Banner

 

 

 

 
	
Pinyon Pine
Pinyon Pine (Pinus edulis)
	

Singleleaf Pinyon (Pinus monophylla)
	
Distribution Map

Common Name(s):
Pinyon Pine
Singleleaf Pinyon

Scientific Name:
Two Species:
Pinus edulis Engelm. (Pinyon Pine)
Pinus monophylla Torr. and Frem. (Singleleaf Pinyon)

Scientific Name Synonyms:
None known

Symbol:
{Symbol}

Description:

Life Span: Perennial

Origin: Native

Season: Evergreen

Growth Characteristics: Pinyon pine is a 10 to 30 foot tall tree, growing in a pyramidal or spreading shape. It reproduces from seeds.

Flowers/Inflorescence: Cones. Unisexual, in clusters at the ends of branches. The male cones occurring in clusters of 20 to 40, dark red to purplish red to yellow. Female cones are solitary and purplish. Mature female cones appear as "pine cones", light brown to tan in color with thick scales. The cones don't mature until September of the second year.

Fruits/Seeds: Seeds are pine nuts.

Leaves: 1 to 2 inch long needles, in spirally-arranged fascicles. There are 2 needles per fascicle in P. edulis, and 1 needle per fascicle in P. monophylla. New growth is bluish-green turning yellowish-green.

Stems: Twigs are smooth when young. Branches are rough and scaly. The bark is thin, gray to reddish-brown or nearly black. The trunk is frequently twisted and crooked. The bark is irregularly furrowed with small scales. Pine gum resin abundant.

Ecological Adaptations:

The woodland mosaic formed by pinyon pine occurs primarily on the high plains, plateaus, mesas, canyons, foothills, and lower mountain slopes of the Colorado Plateau. Sites are intermediate between ponderosa pine and submontane scrub above, and semiarid grassland or sagebrush steppe below. In the Great Basin, P. edulis is replaced by P. monophylla. Pinyon occurs most commonly at elevations between 4,500 and 7,500 feet where annual precipitation ranges from 12 to 18 inches.

The distribution of pinyon pine is primarily a function of climate. Its lower limits are determined by lack of moisture; upper limits by biotic competition, low temperatures, and excessive soil moisture. Therefore, the elevational zones it occupies vary considerably depending on local topography and geographical location. Pinyon pine usually grows on the higher elevation sites in the pinyon-juniper woodlands it occupies.

Soils: : Dry and rocky soils.

Associated Species: Utah juniper, big sagebrush, Indian ricegrass.

Uses and Management:

Pinyon pine is worthless as forage for livestock. Although not preferred, cattle will use pinyon needles. Pinyon needles are believed to cause abortion in cows.
The seeds are important wildlife food for several songbirds, quails, squirrels, chipmunks, black bears, and mule deer.

The seed crop of pinyon pine is valuable and is used in making candies, cakes, and cookies. The seeds were a staple food in American Indian diets and were eaten raw, roasted, or ground into flour. Seed crops are erratic, depending on moisture, and Indian migrations were determined by location of seed crops. Needles were steeped for tea. The inner bark served as starvation food for American Indians.

Today incense is made from crushed cones. Indians still use the pitch as a caulking compound for watertight baskets and as glue for turquoise jewelry. The annual harvest of pinyon nuts exceeds 1million pounds. This crop is second in commercial value only to pecans among the uncultivated nuts of the United States. Singleleaf Pinyon Pine (P. monophylla) nuts are larger and more desirable than those from P. edulis.

The tree is also desired as a Christmas tree because of its aromatic fragrance, and the wood is used for fuel and fence posts.

 

USU Extension | Intermountain Herbarium | College of Natural Resources
USU

Contact Webmaster
Copyright 2002
'" -- http://extension.usu.edu/rangeplants/Woody/pinyonpine.htm



"'
PINYON PINE - Pine Family
Pinus Edulis
     Pinyon Pine is the only short needle pine that grows in the Kaibab Forest of the South Rim. Both Douglas fir and white fir also have short needles but they grow only below the South Rim on shady north-facing cliffs. Pinyon needles are about 1½ inches long. The tree averages 20 to 30 feet tall. The bark is rough; it is gray or black in color and occasionally covered with lichens. The trunk is crooked and branching, not straight like the ponderosa and firs. Cones are small and stubby, about 2 to 3 inches. The seeds, called pinyon nuts or pine nuts, are kidney bean-sized and delicious. A bumper crop of pinyon nuts can be expected about every 3 to 6 years. The pinyon reaches 400 years in age. 
     For thousands of years, the pinyon has enjoyed a symbiotic relationship with the pinyon jay. The jay collects pinyon nuts and buries them for the winter. Although the jay has a marvelous memory for its caches, remembering up to 1,000 caches, any nuts that are not recovered may grow into new trees.
 
 
     Pinyon cones are often empty of seeds by the time they ripen; the nuts are a favorite of many forest animals and birds. Pinyon nuts are astonishingly rich, over 3,000 calories per pound. They contain all 9 of the essential amino acids necessary for people. The nuts, roasted or raw, were a staple of prehistoric Indians (Ancestral Puebloans or "Anasazi") and also of historic tribes. People still enjoy them in salads and pesto sauces. The seeds are expensive to buy, but pine nuts may be legally collected in national forests for personal use (not in National Parks). Beware of sticky sap on the cones. 	
 
 
	     Here are some green pinyon cones that still have their seeds inside. The seeds take up to 18 months to mature in the cones. 
 
 
     Pinyon sap often oozes out of the trunk and hardens. Remarkably, this sap can be chewed like gum, if you can get past the first unpleasant crunchy 60 seconds while the sap polymerizes. 	
 
'" -- http://www.canyondave.com/RabbitBrushPg.html
