Project For A New American Century is part of the NWO.  OldAmericanCentury.org

"'American domination is good both for America and for the world; that such domination requires military strength, diplomatic energy and a belief of moral superiority; and that too few political leaders today are making the case for global domination.'" -- NewAmericanCentury.org


AmericanPolitics.com/20030728Baker.html
"'
Is PNAC Working for Sun Myung Moon?
(Could This Be Why They Both Dislike the UN?)
PLUS! How We Now Know That Saddam Didn't Have The Vast WMD Stores That The Bush/Project for the New American Century Crowd Said He Did
by Tamara Baker

July 28, 2003 -- SAINT PAUL (apj.us) -- An alert APJ reader sent me a wealth of material on Sun Myung Moon's deep and longstanding ties to the Republican Party in general and the Bush dynasty in particular.

I had already known much of this information, but it's good to have it all in one place, and it's good to be reminded that GOP's richest and oldest religious ally has had long-standing plans for world domination, with US troops to serve him as his cannon fodder.

One thing that strikes me, on re-reading the documentation, is "Father" Moon's hatred of the United Nations, and his desire to take it and remake it into his own religious army. Just get a load of these choice bits:

    Findings #2 & #3 from the 1970's congressional investigation of Moon.

    (2) The Moon Organization attempts to achieve goals outlined by Sun Myung Moon, who has substantial control over the economic, political, and spiritual activities undertaken by the organization in pursuit of those goals.

    (3) Among the goals of the Moon Organization is the establishment of a worldwide government in which the separation of church and state would be abolished and which would be governed by Moon and his followers.

And here's a quote from Moon himself, from page 49 of TIME magazine's June 14, 1976 issue, entitled "The Secret Sayings of Master Moon":


    FUTURE PLANS (1976): Once our movement arouses the interest of the people in a nation, through mass media it will spread all throughout the world... So, we are going to focus our attention on one nation from where to reach the world. For that purpose I chose the U.S. The present U.N. must be annihilated by our power. That is the stage for Communists. We must make a new U.N. If the U.S. continues its corruption, and we find among the Senators and Congressmen no one really usable for our purpose, we can make Senators and Congressman out of our members... I have met many famous, so-called famous, Senators and Congressmen; but to my eyes, they are nothing. They are weak and helpless. We will win the battle. This is our dream, our project. But shut your mouth tight.
    -- Excerpt from TParents.org

Now, which other powerful, conservative group in America has had as a longstanding goal the destruction/co-opting of the United Nations?

How about the folks over at the Project for the New American Century?

(You know, the people that essentially run Bush's Pentagon and who serve as a de facto State Department?)

Or, as many folks now lovingly call them, the PNAC Platoon?

Get a load of the comments made by Richard Perle, arch-PNACer, in his gloating March 21, 2003 Guardian article entitled "Thank God for the Death of the UN":

    Saddam Hussein's reign of terror is about to end. He will go
    quickly, but not alone: in a parting irony, he will take the
    UN down with him. Well, not the whole UN. The "good works"
    part will survive, the low-risk peacekeeping bureaucracies
    will remain, the chatterbox on the Hudson will continue to
    bleat. What will die is the fantasy of the UN as the
    foundation of a new world order. As we sift the debris, it
    will be important to preserve, the better to understand, the
    intellectual wreckage of the liberal conceit of safety
    through international law administered by international
    institutions.

Of course, this was written by the same man who thought that 40,000 troops would be enough to conquer and secure Iraq. Over four months later, it's become abundantly clear than over four times that number isn't enough, and will never be enough.

It's only a matter of time before Perle, Cheney, Rumsfeld and the rest of the PNAC Platoon are compelled to go hat in hand to the UN to beg for assistance -- assistance that the UN's members, having been spat and shat on by these same PNACers, are highly unlikely to give.

So, is PNAC really working for Sun Myung Moon, when they act to destroy and subvert the United Nations?

The PNACers may not think so -- they may think merely that their interests and Moon's coincide -- but that doesn't mean they aren't.

Father Moon likes unwitting tools the best of all.

Well, it's official now: At the time the PNAC Platoon sent our sons and daughters into Iraq, Saddam had none of the huge stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction that the Bushies and their Project for the New American Century friends claimed he possessed.

How do we know this?

The PNAC Platoon has, in essence, admitted it.

Their tacit admission was simply this:

When told of the presence of Saddam's sons and fourteen-year-old grandson in a house in Mosul, with only the most minimal of a bodyguard detail to protect them, the PNAC Platoon sent in over two hundred troops, on the ground, in armored vehicles, and in helicopter gunships, to squash them. None of this "bring 'em back alive and to justice" wussiness, that's for sure!

Yes, I know: Uday and Qusay were, like their father, undoubted murderers and thugs. But they were also the only persons their father trusted. (They held the #2 and #3 spots in his government, a fact acknowledged by the infamous deck of cards that the PNAC Platoon had created.)

In other words, they held valuable information -- information that is now lost with their deaths.

Remember the whole reason for the invading of Iraq? To stop Saddam from deploying all those weapons of mass destruction that he supposedly still possessed?

If anyone, outside of Saddam himself, would have known the details of any such WMD stockpiles, it would have been Uday and Qusay Hussein. Their capture alive would have been an intelligence coup of the first order. With only a handful of men to guard them, armed only with small arms, they could have been teargassed and taken alive.

Instead, when their whereabouts were discovered, it was decided to send in two hundred troops from the 101st Airborne against them, along with armored support, along with rocket-armed helicopter gunships -- and with enough bullets raining down on them to literally shave half the width from the columns fronting the villa where the Husseins were holed up with their Mars bars and pistols.

Remember, folks: we're talking about the Ace of Hearts and the Ace of Clubs here. These boys, caught alive, could have told us all we wanted to know about not only any WMDs, but also the current state of armed Baathist resistance to the US presence in Iraq.

But instead, they were killed, because nobody among the PNAC Platoon thought their information worth keeping them alive. Not even to find the WMDs.

Of course, if there weren't any WMDs, and the PNACers knew it, then keeping the boys alive wouldn't be so important now, would it?

See what I mean by "tacit admission"?
APJ
Super
Search	+	Include Stop-Terms
Sort by Display 	Case Sensitive	Whole Words Only
Search Content
	
Body Title URL Alt-Text Links Default
Meta-Description Meta-Keywords Meta-Authors
		
	Copyright © 2003, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996, American Politics Journal Publications, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Read our privacy policy. Contact us.
Operating software by Underwriters Digital Research.
Data development by Gaudette & Associates.
ISSN No. 1523-1690	
'"


"'October 3, 2002 - While serving a prison term in 1924, Adolf Hitler began work on a book he entitled, "Mein Kampf." In this literary work he outlined his plans to both destroy the Jewish people as well as his intentions to launch wars of conquest in order to secure German domination of world affairs.

Some years later, during the 1930s and after his rise to power, Hitler put his plans into action by launching attack after attack against other sovereign European nations. Of course, part of his plan was to always provide some type of justification for his actions. It was very common for him to manufacture enemies by greatly exaggerating any threat they might pose to the German people.

At one point, he went so far as to order the burning of his country's own Reichstag building where the Parliament held its sessions. Hitler and his cronies blamed the fire on the communists, and while history shows us that the whole affair had been contrived, the action frightened the people so much that they gave up all of their civil liberties in a vain attempt to increase their security. The Enabling Acts were passed, the Parliament was dissolved, and Germany fell into the hands of a ruthless dictatorship which required a world war in order to overthrow it.

The history of humanity is scarred with endless wars; wars fought for conquest, religion, and survival. After all these thousands of years, one would hope that humanity would learn its lesson and support leaders who would implement more just ways of solving our differences. But apparently, history is repeating itself once again; and this time it is happening right here in the United States.

Back in 1992 the blueprint for our current foreign policy was being written by then-Defense Secretary Dick Cheney. In his writings he set out a new doctrine that called for U.S. power in the 21st century to be that of an aggressive and unilateral approach that would secure American dominance of world affairs "by force if necessary."

During the Clinton administration this new strategic planning continued with funding from the military-industrial complex, energy companies, and right wing foundations. Even as war weary Americans celebrated the election of Bill Clinton as president, the sinister planning continued.

Over time those working on these new strategic plans evolved into a new group called "The Project for a New American Century" (PNAC). Among it's members were and still are Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, and Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz.

In September 2000, the PNAC updated the original Cheney plan into a new report entitled, "Strengthening America's Defenses." The plans in this report called for unprecedented hikes in military spending, locating American military bases in Central Asia and the Middle East, the toppling of recalcitrant regimes, the violation of international treaties, the militarization of outer space, control of the world's energy resources, and the willingness to use nuclear weapons to achieve American goals.

Does any of this sound familiar? It should, because just such a policy has been unfolding since the day that George W. Bush took office. Considering that our current president was not elected by a majority of the American people, the actions of his administration have been brazen to say the least.

In recent months the Bush administration has launched an all-out assault against the environment, and our civil liberties. It keeps the people in fear with countless terror alerts and talk of various nations having weapons of mass destruction, while failing to mention that many of those weapons were at one time supplied by the United States.

In its beating of the war drums against Iraq, the administration recently mentioned a 1998 report drawn up by the UN's International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) which allegedly stated that Iraq either had or was close to having a nuclear weapon. Shortly afterward, the IAEA denied ever having written such a report. To those who pay close attention to the news it should be perfectly clear that something is dreadfully wrong with the actions of our executive leadership in Washington, DC.

These days I seem to remain in a constant state of astonishment. Truth be told, I have never seen a "president" so eager to send American soldiers off to their possible deaths. I have never witnessed a leader of our nation, while in negotiation (if you can call it that) with other countries, constantly undermining diplomatic progress by continuing to move the goal posts.

In the case of Iraq, no matter what they agree to, it isn't good enough. That country has agreed to open itself up to weapons inspectors once again. Yet, the Bush administration keeps throwing roadblock after roadblock in the way of letting inspectors back in!

I think it's time that we, as Americans begin asking some hard questions. We need to begin connecting the dots between plans drawn up by Dick Cheney and the Project for a New American Century, and our country's current war-like policy. For if the connection is more than coincidence, then we are witnessing the transformation of our great country from one that stands for freedom, justice, and the rule of law, to a new evil empire.

We must start questioning the morality of our new policy of endless war; remembering that war is much more sinister than the flashing of lights and fires across a TV screen. It extinguishes the lives of countless innocent human beings; children, mothers and fathers, the elderly; people who love others and love life just as we do.

In these dark times, I continue to look for inspiration. I often find it in the writings and speeches of Martin Luther King. While Dr. King is best known for being a great leader in the civil right movement of the 1960s, I find his understanding of the morality of war to be equally inspiring. I would like to conclude with his words:

"Some of us who have already begun to break the silence of the night have found that the calling to speak is often a vocation of agony, but we must speak. We must speak with all the humility that is appropriate to our limited vision, but we must speak. For we are deeply in need of a new way beyond the darkness that seems so close around us . . .

"We still have a choice today; non-violent co-existence or violent co-annihilation. We must move past indecision to action. If we do not act, we shall surely be dragged down the long, dark, and shameful corridors of time reserved for those who possess power without compassion, might without morality, and strength without sight." '" -- Onlinejournal.com/Commentary/Vick100302/vick100302.html
