Related: 2995, weather modification

http://www.Legislative.NOAA.Gov/viewsletters/marburgerweathermodviewsletter121305.pdf

http://Thomas.LOC.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c109:s517
http://GovTrack.us/congress/bill.xpd?bill=s109-517

"'
Weather Modification Research and Technology Transfer Authorization Act of 2005 (Introduced in Senate)

S 517 IS

109th CONGRESS

1st Session

S. 517

To establish the Weather Modification Operations and Research Board, and for other purposes.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

March 3, 2005

Mrs. HUTCHISON introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

A BILL

To establish the Weather Modification Operations and Research Board, and for other purposes.

      Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

      This Act may be cited as the `Weather Modification Research and Technology Transfer Authorization Act of 2005'.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE.

      It is the purpose of this Act to develop and implement a comprehensive and coordinated national weather modification policy and a national cooperative Federal and State program of weather modification research and development.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

      In this Act:

            (1) BOARD- The term `Board' means the Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board.

            (2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- The term `Executive Director' means the Executive Director of the Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board.

            (3) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- The term `research and development' means theoretical analysis, exploration, experimentation, and the extension of investigative findings and theories of scientific or technical nature into practical application for experimental and demonstration purposes, including the experimental production and testing of models, devices, equipment, materials, and processes.

            (4) WEATHER MODIFICATION- The term `weather modification' means changing or controlling, or attempting to change or control, by artificial methods the natural development of atmospheric cloud forms or precipitation forms which occur in the troposphere.

SEC. 4. WEATHER MODIFICATION ADVISORY AND RESEARCH BOARD ESTABLISHED.

      (a) IN GENERAL- There is established in the Department of Commerce the Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board.

      (b) MEMBERSHIP-

            (1) IN GENERAL- The Board shall consist of 11 members appointed by the Secretary of Commerce, of whom--

                  (A) at least 1 shall be a representative of the American Meteorological Society;

                  (B) at least 1 shall be a representative of the American Society of Civil Engineers;

                  (C) at least 1 shall be a representative of the National Academy of Sciences;

                  (D) at least 1 shall be a representative of the National Center for Atmospheric Research of the National Science Foundation;

                  (E) at least 2 shall be representatives of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the Department of Commerce;

                  (F) at least 1 shall be a representative of institutions of higher education or research institutes; and

                  (G) at least 1 shall be a representative of a State that is currently supporting operational weather modification projects.

            (2) TENURE- A member of the Board serves at the pleasure of the Secretary of Commerce.

            (3) VACANCIES- Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

      (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEES- The Board may establish advisory committees to advise the Board and to make recommendations to the Board concerning legislation, policies, administration, research, and other matters.

      (c) INITIAL MEETING- Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Board have been appointed, the Board shall hold its first meeting.

      (d) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet at the call of the Chair.

      (e) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

      (f) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR- The Board shall select a Chair and Vice Chair from among its members.

SEC. 5. DUTIES OF THE BOARD.

      (a) PROMOTION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- In order to assist in expanding the theoretical and practical knowledge of weather modification, the Board shall promote and fund research and development, studies, and investigations with respect to--

            (1) improved forecast and decision-making technologies for weather modification operations, including tailored computer workstations and software and new observation systems with remote sensors; and

            (2) assessments and evaluations of the efficacy of weather modification, both purposeful (including cloud-seeding operations) and inadvertent (including downwind effects and anthropogenic effects).

      (b) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- Unless the use of the money is restricted or subject to any limitations provided by law, the Board shall use amounts in the Weather Modification Research and Development Fund--

            (1) to pay its expenses in the administration of this Act, and

            (2) to provide for research and development with respect to weather modifications by grants to, or contracts or cooperative arrangements, with public or private agencies.

      (c) REPORT- The Board shall submit to the Secretary biennially a report on its findings and research results.

SEC. 6. POWERS OF THE BOARD.

      (a) STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS, AND HEARINGS- The Board may make any studies or investigations, obtain any information, and hold any hearings necessary or proper to administer or enforce this Act or any rules or orders issued under this Act.

      (b) PERSONNEL- The Board may employ, as provided for in appropriations Acts, an Executive Director and other support staff necessary to perform duties and functions under this Act.

      (c) COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES- The Board may cooperate with public or private agencies to promote the purposes of this Act.

      (d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Board may enter into cooperative agreements with the head of any department or agency of the United States, an appropriate official of any State or political subdivision of a State, or an appropriate official of any private or public agency or organization for conducting weather modification activities or cloud-seeding operations.

      (e) CONDUCT AND CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- The Executive Director, with the approval of the Board, may conduct and may contract for research and development activities relating to the purposes of this section.

SEC. 7. COOPERATION WITH THE WEATHER MODIFICATION OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH BOARD.

      The heads of the departments and agencies of the United States and the heads of any other public or private agencies and institutions that receive research funds from the United States shall, to the extent possible, give full support and cooperation to the Board and to initiate independent research and development programs that address weather modifications.

SEC. 8. FUNDING.

      (a) IN GENERAL- There is established within the Treasury of the United States the Weather Modification Research and Development Fund, which shall consist of amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (b) or received by the Board under subsection (c).

      (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated to the Board for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2014. Any sums appropriated under this subsection shall remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until expended.

      (c) GIFTS- The Board may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services or property.

SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE.

      This Act shall take effect on October 1, 2005.

'"















govtrack.us/congress/billtext.xpd?bill=s109-517
"'
109th Congress
S. 517: A bill to establish a Weather Modification Operations and Research Board, and for other purposes
Introduced:	Mar 3, 2005
Sponsor:	Sen. Kay Hutchison [R-TX]
Status:	Introduced (By Sen. Kay Hutchison [R-TX])
Last Action:	Nov 10, 2005: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. Hearings held.

                                                                           II




109TH CONGRESS
                           S. 517
   1ST SESSION


 To establish the Weather Modification Operations and Research Board, and
                            for other purposes.




      IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                             MARCH 3, 2005
  Mrs. HUTCHISON introduced the following bill; which was read twice and
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation




                          A BILL
     To establish the Weather Modification Operations and
           Research Board, and for other purposes.

 1        Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
 2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 3   SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

 4        This Act may be cited as the ``Weather Modification
 5 Research and Technology Transfer Authorization Act of
 6 2005''.
 7   SEC. 2. PURPOSE.

 8        It is the purpose of this Act to develop and implement
 9 a comprehensive and coordinated national weather modi-
10 fication policy and a national cooperative Federal and
                                   2
1 State program of weather modification research and devel-
2 opment.
3    SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

4         In this Act:
5                  (1) BOARD.--The term ``Board'' means the
6         Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board.
7                  (2) EXECUTIVE   DIRECTOR.--The   term ``Execu-
8         tive Director'' means the Executive Director of the
9         Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board.
10                 (3) RESEARCH    AND DEVELOPMENT.--The    term
11        ``research and development'' means theoretical anal-
12        ysis, exploration, experimentation, and the extension
13        of investigative findings and theories of scientific or
14        technical nature into practical application for experi-
15        mental and demonstration purposes, including the
16        experimental production and testing of models, de-
17        vices, equipment, materials, and processes.
18                 (4)   WEATHER       MODIFICATION.--The   term
19        ``weather modification'' means changing or control-
20        ling, or attempting to change or control, by artificial
21        methods the natural development of atmospheric
22        cloud forms or precipitation forms which occur in
23        the troposphere.




       S 517 IS
                                  3
1    SEC. 4. WEATHER MODIFICATION ADVISORY AND RE-

2                    SEARCH BOARD ESTABLISHED.

3        (a) IN GENERAL.--There is established in the De-
4 partment of Commerce the Weather Modification Advisory
5 and Research Board.
6        (b) MEMBERSHIP.--
7                 (1) IN   GENERAL.--The   Board shall consist of
8        11 members appointed by the Secretary of Com-
9        merce, of whom--
10                     (A) at least 1 shall be a representative of
11                the American Meteorological Society;
12                     (B) at least 1 shall be a representative of
13                the American Society of Civil Engineers;
14                     (C) at least 1 shall be a representative of
15                the National Academy of Sciences;
16                     (D) at least 1 shall be a representative of
17                the National Center for Atmospheric Research
18                of the National Science Foundation;
19                     (E) at least 2 shall be representatives of
20                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Admin-
21                istration of the Department of Commerce;
22                     (F) at least 1 shall be a representative of
23                institutions of higher education or research in-
24                stitutes; and




      S 517 IS
                                  4
 1                    (G) at least 1 shall be a representative of
 2                a State that is currently supporting operational
 3                weather modification projects.
 4                (2) TENURE.--A member of the Board serves
 5       at the pleasure of the Secretary of Commerce.
 6                (3) VACANCIES.--Any vacancy on the Board
 7       shall be filled in the same manner as the original ap-
 8       pointment.
 9       (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEES.--The Board may estab-
10 lish advisory committees to advise the Board and to make
11 recommendations to the Board concerning legislation, poli-
12 cies, administration, research, and other matters.
13       (c) INITIAL MEETING.--Not later than 30 days after
14 the date on which all members of the Board have been
15 appointed, the Board shall hold its first meeting.
16       (d) MEETINGS.--The Board shall meet at the call of
17 the Chair.
18       (e) QUORUM.--A majority of the members of the
19 Board shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of
20 members may hold hearings.
21       (f) CHAIR           VICE CHAIR.--The Board shall select
                       AND

22 a Chair and Vice Chair from among its members.
23   SEC. 5. DUTIES OF THE BOARD.

24       (a) PROMOTION                RESEARCH           DEVELOP-
                                OF                 AND

25   MENT.--In      order to assist in expanding the theoretical


      S 517 IS
                                  5
 1 and practical knowledge of weather modification, the
 2 Board shall promote and fund research and development,
 3 studies, and investigations with respect to--
 4                (1) improved forecast and decision-making tech-
 5       nologies for weather modification operations, includ-
 6       ing tailored computer workstations and software and
 7       new observation systems with remote sensors; and
 8                (2) assessments and evaluations of the efficacy
 9       of weather modification, both purposeful (including
10       cloud-seeding operations) and inadvertent (including
11       downwind effects and anthropogenic effects).
12       (b) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.--Unless the use of the
13 money is restricted or subject to any limitations provided
14 by law, the Board shall use amounts in the Weather Modi-
15 fication Research and Development Fund--
16                (1) to pay its expenses in the administration of
17       this Act, and
18                (2) to provide for research and development
19       with respect to weather modifications by grants to,
20       or contracts or cooperative arrangements, with pub-
21       lic or private agencies.
22       (c) REPORT.--The Board shall submit to the Sec-
23 retary biennially a report on its findings and research re-
24 sults.




      S 517 IS
                               6
 1   SEC. 6. POWERS OF THE BOARD.

 2       (a) STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS,             HEARINGS.--
                                            AND

 3 The Board may make any studies or investigations, obtain
 4 any information, and hold any hearings necessary or prop-
 5 er to administer or enforce this Act or any rules or orders
 6 issued under this Act.
 7       (b) PERSONNEL.--The Board may employ, as pro-
 8 vided for in appropriations Acts, an Executive Director
 9 and other support staff necessary to perform duties and
10 functions under this Act.
11       (c) COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.--The
12 Board may cooperate with public or private agencies to
13 promote the purposes of this Act.
14       (d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.--The Board may
15 enter into cooperative agreements with the head of any
16 department or agency of the United States, an appropriate
17 official of any State or political subdivision of a State, or
18 an appropriate official of any private or public agency or
19 organization for conducting weather modification activities
20 or cloud-seeding operations.
21       (e) CONDUCT          CONTRACTS         RESEARCH
                        AND               FOR              AND

22 DEVELOPMENT.--The Executive Director, with the ap-
23 proval of the Board, may conduct and may contract for
24 research and development activities relating to the pur-
25 poses of this section.


      S 517 IS
                               7
 1   SEC. 7. COOPERATION WITH THE WEATHER MODIFICATION

 2                OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH BOARD.

 3       The heads of the departments and agencies of the
 4 United States and the heads of any other public or private
 5 agencies and institutions that receive research funds from
 6 the United States shall, to the extent possible, give full
 7 support and cooperation to the Board and to initiate inde-
 8 pendent research and development programs that address
 9 weather modifications.
10   SEC. 8. FUNDING.

11       (a) IN GENERAL.--There is established within the
12 Treasury of the United States the Weather Modification
13 Research and Development Fund, which shall consist of
14 amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (b) or re-
15 ceived by the Board under subsection (c).
16       (b) AUTHORIZATION          APPROPRIATIONS.--There is
                               OF

17 authorized to be appropriated to the Board for the pur-
18 poses of carrying out the provisions of this Act
19 $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2014.
20 Any sums appropriated under this subsection shall remain
21 available, without fiscal year limitation, until expended.
22       (c) GIFTS.--The Board may accept, use, and dispose
23 of gifts or donations of services or property.
24   SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE.

25       This Act shall take effect on October 1, 2005.
                               
      S 517 IS

Copyright © 2005, but you're welcome to reuse/copy anything on this site. GovTrack isn't affiliated with the U.S. Government or any other group. For more information, see About GovTrack. Email comments@govtrack.us with questions or comments only about the operation of this website, not political issues. 
'"




"'
Chemtrails Coming
Out Of The Closet?
By William Thomas
8-31-5
 

Nearly seven years after extensive "lay downs" of lingering and spreading white plumes were first reported smearing skies over across North America, Europe is in an uproar and Washington could be close to coming clean about chemtrails.
 
At least the Bush White house will soon have a legitimate weather control agency to finally "launder" one of the biggest cons ever perpetrated.
 
Introduced in the US Senate on March 1, 2005, Bill S517 calls for a US "Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board" to officially commence operations in October 2005. When passed as expected, this law will make large-scale chemical alteration of the atmosphere legal across a formerly free and beautiful land called America.
 
It's already happening. Less than two weeks before the bill was introduced, Linda wrote from "up here in the mountains of northeast Georgia" of the worst spray day she had ever seen. "Not one day in the past two months have we had a blue sky with normal clouds," Linda wrote. Even normal clouds "are 'laced' with whatever the hell is coming out of those white planes that have no engine sounds, even when they fly low enough to see there is no printing anywhere on the planes."
 
Several years ago the US Air Force stated that it was repainting its silver aircraft white, and retrofitting its jet tanker fleet with "hush kits" to silence their engines.
 
 
DOING SOMETHING ABOUT THE WEATHER
 
Whatever fresh environmental disaster Bill S517 accomplishes, this bill will ease the way for admission of a project suspected by many and confirmed by air traffic controllers at America's biggest airports. When and if the US public demands that their government "do something" about the extreme weather pummeling their neighborhoods, Washington will be able to officially reply, "We are."
 
Intended to "develop and implement a comprehensive and coordinated national weather modification policy," the board is tasked with coordinating state and federal weather modification efforts. It's direct mandate is stepped-up research and development aimed at developing experimental "models, devices, equipment, materials, and processes" to change or control, "by artificial methods" the development of clouds and/or precipitation in the troposphere. This weather-forming region of the atmosphere lies between Earth's surface and the stratosphere, starting around 35,000 feet.
 
The federal weather modifiers will now directly oversee the cloud-seeding operations currently being carried out over dozens of states to increase rain and snowfall for irrigation, electrical power and winter recreation purposes. As droughts intensify under an onslaught of moisture-absorbing chemicals dispensed behind ozone-destroying jet tankers, and future towns wash away in sudden flash floods triggered by rain-inducing atmospheric tinkering, these unnatural disasters and other "inadvertent" effects of weather modification will be closely "studied" by the newly created board.
 
But no studies have been released on the implications of wide-scale alteration of regional atmospheric heat balances.
 
Large-scale weather modification is banned under the United Nations Environmental Modification Convention signed by Washington in 1970.
 
 
CHEMTRAILS 2005
 
Meanwhile, recent heavy "Chemtrail" spraying over Portland, Oregon and Canada's west coast has eased off once again. Another long-time Chemtrail "hot zone", Santa Cruz, California continues reporting clear blue skies unmarked by the chemplanes' ugly scrawl.
 
As recently as May 2005, a Swiss resident sent photographs to Meria Heller's website, reporting: "Today was one of the heaviest Spraying in Switzerland ever."
 
 
CHEMTRAILS CLOSE-UP
 
Some Canadians also have their eyes wide open. in June 2005, large graffiti spray-painted on a major overpass in West Vancouver advised motorists: WAKE UP, LOOK UP, CHEMTRAILS ARE EVERYWHERE.
 
 
AIR FORCE INSIDER DESCRIBES WEATHER MOD MISSIONS
 
An active duty air force crew chief has described environmental combat missions already being flown by specially-outfitted C-130 Hercules transports, which can be reloaded, refueled and relaunched in just 10 minutes to continue their assault on violent storms afflicting US communities. Flown by regular air force pilots, these "science flights" include onboard meteorologists, who painstakingly log the results of each mission.
 
Big storm fronts and hurricanes require a vast amount of absorbent chemicals to reduce their destructive power. To achieve the fast turn-around times needed to complete their missions, flights of returning C-130s taxi to a stop and immediately commence refueling as the empty onboard spray canister is removed. as soon as the empty canister is clear of the aircraft, a waiting truck wheels a semi-trailer-size container of sky-seeding chemicals to the plane's lowered rear ramp, where it is slid inside on rails like a gigantic "soda dispenser".
 
The crew chief added that other spray missions spread (barium) chemtrails to facilitate 3D radar mapping of the entire continental United States. He also said that the air force has been spraying storm fronts "for a long time". The military's main interest, he added, is experimentation aimed at gaining control of the weather for military use.
 
Did the air force spray this year's first Caribbean hurricane, in which the western quadrant disintegrated just before making its Texas landfall? "There's no reason they wouldn't," the crew chief replied.
 
But C-130 turboprops would not necessarily be used to try to influence hurricanes that typically release more energy than all atomic arsenals combined. Referring to the 757s recently modified for aerial spraying, the crew chief told willthomas.net, "We've got them, but I can't talk about them."
 
He added that many people in the air force "are aware of William Thomas" and his reporting on chemtrails. The crew chief confirmed that this reporter "has it mostly right" concerning the application and purposes behind chemtrails. But would not elaborate on my reporting.
 
 
EUROPEAN CHEMTRAIL UPROAR
 
Meanwhile, the chemtrails controversy has taken Europe by storm following a series of articles by Swiss freelance journalist Gabriel Stetter in the German popular science magazine Raum+Zeit (Space and Time), circulation circa 50,000.
 
Stetter's first article, "White Skies" created a public relations nightmare for Greenpeace when it informed readers in January 2004 how "Thousands of people were thoroughly shocked when they realised, and were informed by Greenpeace in Germany, Switzerland and Austria that-for some reason or other-Greenpeace has no interest in the Chemtrail question whatsoever."
 
The Swiss government also came under public pressure to explain the checkerboards being painted in its skies. On March 5, 2004 the Environment Department in Berne, Switzerland responded to an inquiry by Rudolf Rechsteiner, Social Democratic member of parliament, admitting that "A number of ideas exist that show how it would be possible to reduce global warming by technical means, at least in the short term."
 
But these ideas, the government office hastened to add, "are no more than theoretical. We are not aware of any practical application of these methods, either at home or abroad."
 
Ten days later, Greenpeace Switzerland climate and transport expert Cyrill Studer wrote an internal memo assuring colleagues that while he had "heard of the chemtrails phenomenon," for the present, Greenpeace "will not be following up the theme of chemtrails."
 
Two reasons for inaction by Greenpeace climate change activists were given. First, Studer explained, "There is not a sufficiently solid scientific basis" for Greenpeace to risk its budget and reputation verifying this "supposed phenomenon". To do so, he added in his memo to Greenpeace staff, "would overstretch our capacities.Important elements of our climate campaign would suffer, particularly the promotion of energy efficiency and of renewable energies, or our active influence in present-day politics."
 
Outside Greenpeace's corporate offices, the controversy continued. On June 11 German Greenpeace spokeswoman Kristine Läger told concerned constituents:
 
The idea of reducing global warming by putting chemicals in the atmosphere has been around a long time. There are various proposals in this direction, suggesting the chemicals should be independently sprayed and that they should be mixed with the fuel of ordinary passenger aircraft. Whether in Germany such proposals have reached the point of actual realization is highly questionable. So far as we are aware there are no indications from research and observation of weather and climate that these so-called chemtrails exist. Nor are we aware of any project that has been realized in practice.. in all probability this is not happening.
 
But Gabriel Stetter believes that the Greenpeace "Rainbow Warriors" know all about the rainbows in the sky. They probably also know of geoengineering studies to reduce incoming sunlight and slow global warming issued by the National Academy of Sciences. "And they may even have taken a look at the Welsbach Patent," he writes. "But they have no idea what conclusions to draw from the chessboard pattern suspended in the Hamburg sky or the aluminium-enriched 'rainbows'.
 
"Supposing the word 'chemtrails' appeared in print in the Greenpeace Magazine," Stetter speculates. "How many tens of thousands of people more would look up into the sky and recognize that the supposedly Utopian "proposal" has long moved on via "spraying trials" to a systematic, long-term spreading of cloud cover over the whole of Europe?"
 
Back in Basel, Gabriel Stetter quoted unsourced opinion polls showing that in this "stronghold" of chemtrails believers, one in ten people "have already heard of them despite the media blackout. Several thousand people in the prosperous town at the bend in the Rhine know that the chemtrails phenomenon suggests that something is seriously wrong."
 
Among these Swiss chemtrails activists, he explained, "are well-to-do people, who because of their environmental awareness have been for a long time, in some cases for decades, members of Greenpeace."
 
Not any more.
 
"Veteran anti-nuclear activists, campaigners for animal welfare or against electrosmog-in their alarm they had all turned to Greenpeace because of the chemtrails, which are visible everywhere in the skies above Basel. But a painful experience awaited all of them. They were palmed off with the same unsatisfactory answers that we have by now grown tired of hearing. The consequence drawn by these elderly, well-to-do activists from Greenpeace's lack of interest was the immediate cancellation of membership of many years, the withdrawal of legacies, and the withholding of payments to Greenpeace until further notice."
 
As Brian Holmes notes on his website, www.holmestead.ca, the October 2004 issue #131 of the Raum + Zeit contained many pages of letters from readers responding positively to Stetter's first article in issue #127. "Many of these letters are illustrated with color photographs supplied by the readers themselves."
 
 
Former six-year a board member of Greenpeace Germany, Monika Griefahn chaired the Committee for Culture and Media of the Federal German Parliament when she replied to a letter from two chemtrails dissenters in July 2004, stating, "I am in basic agreement with your concerns. Instead of making a concerted and determined effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the world, experiments of various kinds are being carried out in the earth's atmosphere in order to cure the symptoms."
 
 
GERMAN PARLIMENTARTIAN "ADMITS" CHEMTRAIL
 
Former six-year a board member of Greenpeace Germany, Monika Griefahn chaired the Committee for Culture and Media of the Federal German Parliament when she replied to a letter from two chemtrails dissenters in July 2004, stating, "I am in basic agreement with your concerns. Instead of making a concerted and determined effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the world, experiments of various kinds are being carried out in the earth's atmosphere in order to cure the symptoms."
 
After assuring her correspondents, "I share your concern over the use of aluminium or barium compounds which have a considerable toxic potential," the parliamentarian went on to say, "however, so far as I am aware the extent of their use is so far minimal."
 
"At last!" Stetter announced in the German science magazine. "There we have it. In the skies of Germany, so Social Democratic member of Parliament Monika Griefahn tells us, aluminium and barium compounds are being spread just as tens of thousands of concerned citizens have observed, documented and bitterly deplored."
 
Thanking the Honorable Griefahn her for her courage, Stetter suggested, "Maybe one day statues of politicians like Monika Griefahn or the equally plucky US Congressman Dennis Kucinich will adorn in marble splendor the squares of newly verdant German or American cities."
 
That would be nice.
 
But the public outcry in Europe will have to spread to North America if we are to stop this massive, illegal and continuing air and atmospheric pollution.
 
Excerpted from Convergence Weekly.

'" -- rense.com