santorum: opposite of sanitary

"'
"It Takes a Family : Conservatism and the Common Good"

16 of 63 people found the following review helpful:
Defending the family, October 23, 2005
Reviewer:	Jeffrey Leach (Omaha, NE USA) - See all my reviews
(TOP 50 REVIEWER)    (REAL NAME)   
Before I sat down to read Senator Rick Santorum's "It Takes a Family: Conservatism and the Common Good," I knew the book would be controversial. I knew members of the tin foil helmet brigade, the people who believe George Bush can control hurricanes, would screech at anything Rick Santorum would have to say. Well, I was partly right. The bats flew in front of the moon in their haste to come out in force against this book. It was incorrect to assume that the comments made by the aforementioned lefties were derisive, however. "Derisive" doesn't quite capture the depths of vitriol heaped upon this book. Why is Rick Santorum such a divisive figure? Why do the attacks on his book resemble in no small way the scorn aimed at Bill and Hillary Clinton? Who is this guy? He's a senator from the great state of Pennsylvania, a conservative Catholic with a large family who believes in home schooling his kids, and he's not shy about voicing his opinions on the great issues of the day. He's also a guy who has made questionable comments about certain politically correct groups that earned the everlasting ire of liberals everywhere.

The title of the book, "It Takes a Family," is obviously a riff on Former First Lady Hillary Clinton's seminal snoozefest "It Takes a Village." Both books deal with families and children, and both books articulate a specific view on how the government should interact with this bedrock institution of American society. Guess where the two stand? Hillary thinks the government should take care of your kids from the cradle to the grave. No surprise there. What is surprising is Santorum's position. While he strenuously disagrees with the ideas of these "village elders," the term he uses to refer to the left-wing politicians and academics, he doesn't reject the concept of government assistance entirely. According to the good senator, the federales can assist parents and children in numerous ways in five interrelated areas. Santorum refers to these rubrics in the language of business "capital"--specifically social, economic, moral, cultural, and intellectual capital--and argues convincingly that we currently lack the necessarily capital in these areas to pass on our country's heritage to our kids. Through a host of big government programs that enable reform and action on the local level, contends Santorum, America can successfully build up an abundance of capital that will see us through any difficulties we may face.

We all know the problems families face in today's society. Sky-high divorce rates, crime, the deterioration of the cities, failing public education systems, and institutional moral relativism make it pretty difficult to raise youngsters. Santorum spends little time harping on these problems, preferring instead to outline what he considers are potential cures. Tax credits and similar economic goodies for families with children, he argues, might help foster stability. This is only the tip of the iceberg, however. The author introduces us to several small, localized private charities that provide a host of services for America's poor. One organization, for instance, helps people buy their own homes by covering the cost of the down payment. Other institutions employ complex computer models to determine how best to allocate resources to poverty stricken neighborhoods. Instead of just throwing money at the problem from the top down--the way the federal government usually operates--these private charities work up close and personal with families on a case by case basis. And their methods, according to the senator, seem to work far better than the public dole. Santorum wants the federal government to fund more of these sorts of charities. He seems to believe that most social ills, and he includes abortion in the list, will gradually disappear if we empower families in this way.

After reading the book, I can't see what all the fuss is about. "It Takes a Family" is a well written, thoroughly organized, and thought-provoking piece of writing. More people should read it. I suspect the chapter on abortion is the most controversial, a topic that never fails to raise the ire of both the pro-choice and pro-life crowds. Even worse, Santorum's arguments in this chapter are convincing, which is something those who support this medical procedure definitely won't appreciate. But what else could we expect from a conservative Catholic with this many kids? The main thesis of the book still holds. Our family structure is in serious decline, and a nation that can't maintain viable families is doomed to collapse. Remember the time when you could let your kids walk to school or play outside with little supervision, secure in the knowledge that neighbors (and even complete strangers) generally would look out for children? I think we can all agree those days are long gone. Santorum merely wishes to reverse this sad state of affairs and in the process restore the sense of family, and by extension the sense of community, America once had. I hardly think such a notion represents a radical agenda.

Having said that, I did have a major problem with the book that forces me to subtract one star. Santorum quibbles with liberals over the nature of how government should help restore the family. He never argues what any real conservative ought to argue, namely that the government ought to GET OUT of the business of families altogether. We're in trouble because of government's involvement. His arguments for different sorts of legislation sound good, but what happens ten or twenty years down the road when a couple of dozen lawmakers and a few bureaucracies get their hands on it? The legislation initially proposed to do good works inevitably ends up doing harm. It's happened time and time again. Nonetheless, most of what's in the book is good stuff. Give it a chance.


Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo (Report this)



4 of 38 people found the following review helpful:
A book for every Pennsylvanian--and American--to read, November 25, 2005
Reviewer:	A. P. Schiavo Jr. (Bristol, PA United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
A century ago, Theodore Roosevelt said, "It is in the life of the family, upon which in the last analysis the whole welfare of the nation rests....The nation is nothing but the aggregate of the families within its borders." Rick Santorum, the U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania, has expanded upon TR's sage wisdom in his book, It Takes a Family. The title of this book has positioned it as a direct response to It Takes a Village-the widely celebrated (by liberals) and derided (by conservatives) book by Senator Hillary Clinton.

It Takes a Family is a wide-ranging, thoughtful examination of the American social, moral, and intellectual landscape that deserves a more thorough review that can be given on Amazon.com. Santorum's basic thesis is that the liberal vision for America of "No-Fault freedom" is resulting in the squandering of our heritage of social, moral, cultural, and intellectual capital. Yet, Santorum's book is not simply a laundry list of liberal ideological and policy failures. Indeed, the good senator goes out of his way to call out some of the more liberal members of the Senate who have helped craft truly effective legislation. The book is one of those rare works that goes beyond naked partisan criticism to propose constructive and creative solutions to present and looming dilemmas.

Santorum's work also serves as an effective apologia for the cultural conservative political agenda. Too often, Republicans are seen as little more than "cheap Democrats." No one can accuse Senator Santorum of being part of that caucus. While he very clearly does not believe in Big Government as the solution to every problem, he recognizes that the federal and state governments can help by encouraging objectively good behavior and citizenship and discouraging destructive behavior. He is a firm proponent of the Catholic principle of subsidiarity-the philosophy of social policy that says that the fulfillment of human needs should be accomplished at the lowest possible level, and that state and federal level should assume such responsibility only as a last resort. This completely turns on its head the neo-Marxist philosophy of Big Government as the solution to every problem, no matter how small. Thus, Santorum believes that the majority of social issues plaguing the United States begin and may be solved at the most basic community level: the family.

As expected, the most effective section of Santorum's book is that which deals with the grave moral evil of abortion. Santorum's passion and unambiguous pro-life position comes through in his compelling description of his role as floor leader during the partial-birth abortion debates in the US Senate over the past 10 years. His description of his wife's own miscarriage and the effect the debates had on one young couple in particular-who decided not to abort their baby after watching on C-SPAN-were enough to bring tears to the eyes.

I found the chapter entitled the Rule of Judges to be similarly effective, providing a concise history of how federal and state judges have gradually usurped the role of the elected legislative branches to eliminate laws that have been in place for hundreds of years and create and impose new "rights" out of thin air. This chapter should be required reading for every American who is concerned about the extra-constitutional role the federal courts have assumed over the past 40 years which have allowed abortion, sodomy, and pornography to become civil rights while all but banishing God from the public square-all without a single vote on these issues ever being cast by the people or their elected representatives.

Rick Santorum is perhaps unique among the Senate for his passion, creativity, and devotion to the traditional ideals which have helped Western civilization, and America in particular, develop and flourish. Few of the bloviators and self-important gas bags currently inhabiting that august body could have produced a book of this clarity and quality. That said, it is his very passion, clarity of vision, and his interest in lifting up traditional Democratic constituencies (union workers, underserved minority groups, low income families, African-Americans, etc.) that have made Santorum Public Enemy #1 to the hard left. Both Hillary Clinton and Barbara Boxer have been made to look foolish and extremist in debates against Santorum on the floor of the Senate and national left-wing groups will be pouring unprecedented amounts of money into the 2006 campaign to defeat him. It would truly be a shame if the people of Pennsylvania allowed themselves to be swayed by this influx of partisan capital. If every family in Pennsylvania read this book, Senator Santorum would be re-elected in a land-slide.


Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo (Report this)


Customer Reviews
Average Customer Review:
Write an online review and share your thoughts with other customers.


19 of 20 people found the following review helpful:
A Note:, December 9, 2005
Reviewer:	Stephen Blake "Steve" (Douglas, MA United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
Rick Santorum is a caeer with an incredibly myopic and bigoted view of the world, not mention his his grasp of facts is shaky at best. His efforts regarding Terry Schaivo while not only scientifically ignorant and completely exploitive were also cruel and heartless. I found his writing thoughtless and uncompeling.
Steve

Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo (Report this)



45 of 47 people found the following review helpful:
Christian Fundamentalism is Typically Quite Entertaining, December 8, 2005
Reviewer:	Freedom N. Liberty "America the Beautiful" (Encinitas, CA USA) - See all my reviews
Christian fundamentalism is typically quite entertaining, but Rick Santorum's book just doesn't quite supply the laughs I expected. Normally, when I see fascist Santorum on the television, I am laughing hard. The guy is funny!!

Unfortunately though, this book is just a dud. No laughs. I think Santorum went with the "serious angle" here. Big mistake! He should stick to the laugh-a-minute shtick that he exhibits everyday in the U.S. Senate.

Amen!

Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo (Report this)



5 of 38 people found the following review helpful:
A great book for conservatives and liberals too!, November 26, 2005
Reviewer:	H. Adams (East Tennessee, USA) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
If you are conservative, this book will help you better vocalize your position, and if you are liberal, it will debunk some myths! Our country surely is divided, and at the crux of the problem is an unwillingness and/or misunderstanding of political theory and ideology. That all sounds very scholarly, but it is really quite simple; Liberals and conservatives have a different idea as to what it means to be American and as to what type(yes TYPE) of government we should have, despite having it all laid out for us in the Constitution. This book outlines these problems without reservation. It is truly a wake up call to us all. If you are confused as to how we have ended up where we are and are concerned as to what we must do to end up where we belong, start here. This book helps us reach beyond the false statements as to what the conservative agenda is in order to truly understand it and how to implement it to make this country a better place today and tomorrow. Read it!

Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo (Report this)



7 of 43 people found the following review helpful:
Excellent, November 24, 2005
Reviewer:	Freedom57 - See all my reviews
I notice that many of the One Star Reviews seem to be have been written by left wing activists who are attacking Santorum for his political views, instead of actually taking the time to write an unbiased review of the book. In fact, I highly doubt that many of them have even read Santorum's book, instead they are mindlessly repeating the same tired old talking points. (Religious Reich, Fascists Ect...)

Santorum tackles an important subject, and does so with poise and intellect. He focuses on the importance of family to society, and shows how those on the left have been consistant in their assault on the family unit.

I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in this topic.
'" -- www.amazon.com/gp/product/1932236295/qid=1134107474/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/103-7927776-6300649?s=books&v=glance&n=283155
