Seeds spring toward the sun as plant that feed animals

ChilternSeeds.com

treeutah.org/SEED.html

The seeds of some plants are not viable because of excessive hybridization.
The seeds of some plants are illegal to use because of artificial scarcity.

"'
Monsanto Sues Midwest Farmers for Saving Soybean Seeds.

...When farmers buy the seed, they have to sign a contract that outlines the rules of use...
'" -- http://www.organicconsumers.org/Monsanto/farmerssued.cfm


"' The Seed Savers Exchange estimates that 90% of the food crops grown at the end of 19th century are no longer commercially available and that two-thirds of the 5,000 open-pollinated varieties available in 1984 disappeared by 1994. The United Nation’s Food and Agricultural Organization estimates that in this century, 75% of the genetic diversity of agricultural crops has been lost.'" -- http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/edible_gardening/8838


Saving lettuce and tomato seed is simple - and satisfying. You can produce quantities of high quality seed at no cost at all. Neither lettuce nor tomatoes interbreed easily, so no special measures are required to keep a variety pure.

For tomatoes, simply select a ripe fruit and extract the seed. For lettuces, allow a good specimen to 'bolt', then collect the seed once the flowers have produced their fluffy white 'clocks'.


Save the seeds of gifting plants.  Plant them everywhere they might grow.  Look for favorable conditions on neglected land.  Use guerrilla gardening to overpower the dominating man.

IRAQ COALITION PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY ORDER NUMBER 81 allows the Manoralist Monsanto to dominate the once proud and once sovereign nation of Iraq by introducing their viral GMO wheat into the biosphere of the very cradle of civilization, and then cliamin ownership over any grain that was accidentally pollenated.  The hidden atrocity at Abu Ghraib was the destruction of the seed banks that housed wheat strains selected over the last 10,000 years.  These seeds are being replaced by genetics owned by fascist feudalists.

"'But Open Source shouldn't be limited strictly to transfer of things digital. Another example of where this method might be beneficially used is in the development and propagation of seeds. If you think about it, a seed is analogous to an advanced self-contained embedded computer system. It contains the software (DNA) and hardware (cells) that under the right conditions allow development and self-replication. Sadly, this technology is being taken over by large multinational corporations whose only goal is to maximize profit by creating artificial symbiotic systems of seeds and petrochemical derivatives in the form of fertilizers and insecticides. This effort is also being abetted by the passage of laws which allow the very genetics of plants to be patented, creating monopolies which foster unhealthy dependencies in production and consumption. In addition, in most cases little or no attention is being paid to what long-term effects these products may have on consumers, producers, ecosystems or society in general.'" -- worldwatch.linuxgazette.com/article.php?sid=120&mode=thread&order=0

primalseeds.nologic.org
www.almanac.com
forums2.gardenweb.com/forums/exseed
