phon: T
teach: educate

Camellia sinensis
"'Common name Tea plant.  An evergreen shrub growing to 2.5 m at a slow rate in part shade.  Tea plant can be easily  grown as a greenhouse plant or a porch plant that you bring in during the winter or if your local permits grow it under a tree in dapples light.  Most varieties tolerates temperatures down to 20°F.  Tea prefers a wet humid summer and a cool but not very frosty dry winter. Some varieties from colder climates will tolerate colder temperatures ie; Small Leaf Japanese -9 degrees F. and the Guang chou to 0 degrees F. The large leaf China variety and the Korean variety does better in warm climates.  When you place your order we will email you and determine which variety will be best for your climate.

 Tea plants are very ornamental and are usually kept pruned to a spreading shrub 2 to 5 feet in height and it's shoots (the bud and two tender leaves) can be plucked each 7 to 14 days, 4 pounds of which yield 1 pound of dried or "made" tea.  It is in leaf all year, and in flower from March to May.  The flowers are pollinated by Bees and are very fragrant.  Tea plants requires well-drained, light sandy or medium loamy soils.  The plant prefers acid soil ( 4.5 to 6 ). If you grow this as a container plant you can grow it in a sphagnum peat moss potting soil or well composted pine bark with vermiculite and Greensand or compost added. You can fertilize with Azalea plant food or Miracid plant food which will keep your soil acid or use organic Fish Emulsion and Vinegar to keep the soil acid.  If the ph of your soil or water is alkaline you will need to take special measures to maintain an acid soil ph.  It is recommended that you obtain a ph tester at your local nursery to monitor your Tea plant's soil ph.  If you grow your plant in a pot I strongly suggest that you grow your plant in a 4" pot the first year,  then bump it up to a gallon sized pot the next spring.  This will help you to keep from over-watering your plant.  Water only when the soil is starting to dry out.  Tea plants hate soggy feet!

Harvest and dry only the very young leaves and leaf buds throughout the growing season from plants three years old and older.  The tea leaves top two leaves and the bud leaf are plucked from the end of the branchlet and processes into Green Tea, Black Tea, Gunpowder Tea, Orange Pekoe Tea, Oolong Teas and other great tasting teas all coming from the same plant.  What makes each tea different from another is mainly the way the leaf is processed.

Green Tea is made from Camellia sinensis steamed and dried leaves.  

Black Tea is made from Camellia sinensis leaves that have been fermented than dried

OOLONG TEA is made from partially fermented Camellia sinensis leaves.

Here are three simple recipes you can make at home.

	

	



GREEN TEA
1.   Tender young growth is picked by hand from Camellia sinensis.  Young shoots with 2 - 3 leaves are recommended.  Any surface water on the leaves and shoots is allowed to dry in the shade for up to a few hours.
	
2.   In preparing green tea, the oxidizing enzymes are killed by steaming the freshly plucked leaf in a vegetable steamer on your stove for less than one minute, or by roasting in a hot pan ( cast-iron skillet ) for a few minutes.  This process is called "sha qing" (killing out) in Chinese.
	
3.   The leaves are finally dried in an oven set at 250° Fahrenheit for 20 minutes.  This step is necessary to remove any moisture in the leaf so it won't mold and it stops any fermentation.

4.   You may add dried Jasmine, dried blackberry leaf or other fine tasting leaf teas to this tea to give it a fruity flavor.


OOLONG TEA
1.   The freshly plucked shoots from Camellia sinensis are spread out thinly over a cleared area of flat ground, which is usually covered with a mat or a towel to keep the leaves from contact with the earth.  The shoots are wilted under the sun for 30 minutes to one hour, depending on the temperature.

2.   The leaves are then taken indoors, where they are left to wither at room temperature for a number of hours.  During this period the leaves are gently agitated by hand every hour.  This process causes the edge of the leaf to turn red, and the moisture content drops about 20%.  These controlled actions cause the biochemical reactions and enzymatic processes in the leaf, which in turn produce the unique aroma and colors found in oolong teas.

3.   After withering, the leaves are then dried in an oven set at 250 ° Fahrenheit for 15 - 20 minutes.  This stops the enzymatic process.


BLACK TEA
1.    Tender young growth is picked by hand from Camellia sinensis.  Young shoots with 2 - 3 leaves are recommended.  Any surface water on the leaves and shoots is allowed to dry on racks for 10 to 20 hours and its purpose is to bring down the internal moisture of the leaf to somewhere between 60% and 70% of the original moisture.  This step makes the leaf more pliable for the next step.

2.    The leaves are bruised to allow the fermentation process to begin.  Several shoots are rolled between your hands or crushed until the leaves darken and become crinkled.  This process is repeated until all the leaves are bruised till  they turn a bright copper penny color.

3.   The leaves are allowed to ferment by placing thin layers of leaves on a tray in a shady location.  After 2-3 days the leaves are ready for drying.

4.   The leaves are dried in an oven set at 250° Fahrenheit for 20 minutes.  This step is necessary to remove all the water in the leaves and to stop the fermentation process.  It also seals in the flavor.  Now the tea is ready to use or store in an airtight container.



Tea contains polyphenols, these are antioxidants that help to protect the body against heart diseases, stroke and cancer.  The leaves are cardiotonic, diuretic, stimulant and astringent.  Tea has even been shown to prevent tooth decay due to its high fluoride content.  Tea has a decided influence over the nervous system, giving a feeling of comfort and exhilaration, but also producing an unnatural wakefulness when taken in large doses.

Hibiscus Tea plants  Hibiscus sabdariffa           Also known as Jamaican Sorrel, Florida Cranberry and used in Red Zinger tea commercially

	

 Hibiscus Tea plant is a easy to grow tender tropical bush.  It grows 3 to 8' tall and blooms yellow with a red base, mallow flower that is up to 5" wide.  The flowers last one day then they drop off to leave a red, fleshy, juicy rhubarb tasting, calyx that is typically used in Hibiscus Tea blends.  They may be used dried or fresh.  The calyces can be used in jams, soups, sauces, and flavoring for wines.  The ripe calyces are diuretic and antiscorbutic.  The dried calyx boiled in water is used as a drink in the treatment of bilious attacks.  The flowers and leaves are also edible and can be used to make a tea to treat high blood pressure and as a tonic for digestive and kidney functions.

It should be grown as a pot plant if you don't live in the far south. It doesn't tolerate temperature below 45° F.  It is a well manageable and pleasing bush in a large pot.  It grows quickly and will bloom the first year.  It blooms in the fall - spring seasons when days are short.  I recommend you place it in a full sun / part sunny position in the summer and then place it in a bright sunny location during the winter months, bringing it in when the weather turns cool.    It isn't picky about soil and likes a little organic fertilizer.  Don't foliar fertilize when you are harvesting the blooms.  Fish emulsion flavored tea buds taste really bad!
'" -- http://liveherbnursery.com/teacamelliasinensis2.htm
