Trees are plants larger than bushes.

Nut: Pine, Almond, Pecan, Walnut, Filbert, Hickory, Butternut, Chestnut, Pistachio, Macadamia

"'
Turkish filbert (Corylus colurna) - medium sized tree. Tolerates a wide variety of conditions including: high pH, moderate drought and fairly cold temperatures. Shade intolerant. Height at maturity: 20 -40 feet, closer to lower end of range.

Quininebush (Cowania mexicana) - usually shrubby but can reach 25 feet tall. It is very drought tolerant and browsed by wildlife. Difficult to find in nurseries but try Wildland Nursery in Joseph, Utah.Height at maturity: less than 20 feet.

Kentucky Coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus) - a wonderful tree that grows large at maturity. TreeUtah has planted Coffeetrees around the valley including in front of our office. Excellent survival rate and moderately drought and heat tolerant. Gangly looking for the first few years, this tree grows to have a wide canopy. Height at maturity: greater than 40 feet.

Chinese Pistache (Pistacia chinensis) Although a little difficult to obtain, these medium to large size trees are very drought tolerant and adaptable to a variety of soil conditions. What makes them more interesting are their compound leaves and good fall color. Height at maturity: 20 - 40 feet (closer to higher end of range).

Common Smoketree (Cotinus coggygria) - a small shrubby tree which can be pruned to a single trunk, this colorful fall tree is best planted in groups. It is somewhat drought tolerant and adaptable for a variety of sites, especially compact locations. Height at maturity: less than 20 feet.

Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) - there are several cultivars of this deciduous gymnosperm, native only to China and Japan. The Ginkgo does very well in the urban landscape tolerating pollution, compacted soils, heat and low water. The golden fall color is lovely and Ginkgos can get to be fairly large at maturity. Plus, the fan shaped leaves are interesting. Height at maturity: greater than 40 feet. (Some conifers are also more tolerant of low water use).

Pinyon Pine (Pinus edulis) - this native pine will do well on dry sites and provides tasty treats for wildlife. Height at maturity: 20 - 40 feet.`

'" -- treeutah.org
