"'Walnuts (Juglans juglandaceae)
Walnuts have been around for a long, long time. Thanks to shells found in the Swiss lake dwellings of neolithic man, dating back to about 7000 BC, we know that they have been used as food since prehistoric times. And they are native to Asia, Europe, and North America--having predated the separation of continents 60 million years ago.

There are 17 recognized species--all edible. "Persians" (Juglans regia) are considered the most tasty. They are supposed to have originated in southeast Europe and warm parts of Asia. They've been found growing around ancient Baalbek and over the walls of Constantinople.

Walnuts soon spread to Greece, where they were called caryon or head, because Greeks saw the shell as a human skull and the nut as human brains. Accordinly, it was thought that walnuts cured headaches. That old "association" thing, I guess.

Thence they traveled to Rome, where they were known as Royal Nut and as Nut of Jupiter. Juglans, in fact, is a contraction of "Jove's acorn" or Jovis glansPliny said, "chewing a nut fasting is a sovereign remedy against a rabid dog." Walnuts were also thought to be good for decayed teeth or, when taken with figs, for digestion.

Romans took the walnut to France, where the French used its oil for cooking and for thickening sauces. It didn't reach England until the 16th century. At that point, they were called WALnuts, from "wal" meaning "foreign." And the English took Persian walnuts to New England and called them "English nuts" to distinguish them from the native so-called "Black walnuts" (Juglans nigra). The butternut (Juglans cinerea) is also a delicious edible native walnut. Franciscan monks planted the Persian nut in California in the 18th century, while founding Spanish missions there. 

'" -- http://www.soupsong.com/fnuts.html


"'Walnuts, Juglans regia, can give good yields but this crop is also unpredictable. Mind you, walnut trees have so many other uses that I would strongly advise anyone with enough land to seriously consider planting out a small plantation. Some of its other uses include:- the sap is tapped in spring and used to make a sugar; a wide range of dyes can be obtained from various parts of the plant; an edible oil from the seed can also be used in soapmaking, paints, etc though it quickly goes rancid; the nuts can be used as a wood polish - simply crack open the shell and rub the kernel into the wood to release the oils then wipe off with a clean cloth; the dried fruit rind is used to paint doors, window frames etc (it probably protects the wood due to its tannin content); the crushed leaves are an insect repellent; a substance called 'juglone' is secreted from the roots of this tree, it has an inhibitory effect on the growth of many other plants; the fresh or dried bark of the tree and the fruit rind are dried and used as a tooth cleaner; the wood is a very valuable timber and is used for furniture making, veneer etc. With all these other uses, what does it matter if you don't get nuts every year!'" -- http://www.scs.leeds.ac.uk/pfaf/staples.html
